MESSRS. MACMILLAN & CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.


WORKS BY CHARLOTTE M. YONGE.

NOVELS AND TALES. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6_s._ each.

    =The Heir of Redclyffe.=
    =Heartsease.=
    =Hopes and Fears.=
    =The Daisy Chain.=
    =Dynevor Terrace.=
    =Pillars of the House.= 2 vols.
    =Clever Woman of the Family.=
    =Lady Hester and the Danvers Papers.=
    =Unknown to History.=
    =Stray Pearls.=
    =The Armourer’s Prentices.=
    =The Young Stepmother.=
    =The Trial.=
    =My Young Alcides.=
    =The Three Brides.=
    =The Caged Lion.=
    =Dove in the Eagle’s Nest.=
    =Love and Life.=
    =The Chaplet of Pearls.=
    =Magnum Bonum.=
    =The Two Sides of the Shield.=
    =Nuttie’s Father.=
    =Scenes and Characters.=
    =Chantry House.=
    =A Modern Telemachus.=

    =Byewords=: a Collection of Tales, New and Old. Crown 8vo. 6_s._

    =The Prince and the Page.= Illustrated. New Edition. Globe 8vo.
    4_s._ 6_d._

    =Little Lucy’s Wonderful Globe.= With Illustrations. Globe 8vo.
    4_s._ 6_d._

    =A Book of Golden Deeds.= 18mo. 4_s._ 6_d._ Globe Readings
    Edition for Schools. Globe 8vo. 2_s._ Cheap Edition, 1_s._
    Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 6_s._

    =The Story of the Christians and the Moors in Spain.= 18mo.
    4_s._ 6_d._

    =P’s and Q’s=; or, The Question of Putting Upon. With
    Illustrations. Globe 8vo. 4_s._ 6_d._

    =The Lances of Lynwood.= With Illustrations. Globe 8vo. 4_s._
    6_d._

    =The Little Duke.= New Edition. Globe 8vo. 4_s._ 6_d._

    =A Storehouse of Stories.= Edited by C. M. YONGE. 2 vols. each
    2_s._ 6_d._

    =A Book of Worthies.= Gathered from the Old Histories and
    written Anew. 18mo. 4_s._ 6_d._

    =Cameos from English History.= Vol. I. From Rollo to Edward II.
    Extra fcp. 8vo. 5_s._—Vol. II. The Wars in France. 5_s._—Vol.
    III. The Wars of the Roses. 5_s._—Vol. IV. Reformation Times.
    5_s._—Vol. V. England and Spain. 5_s._—Vol. VI. Forty Years of
    Stuart Rule, 1603-1643. 5_s._

    =A Parallel History of France and England=, consisting of
    Outlines and Dates. Oblong 4to. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =Scripture Readings for Schools and Families.= Five Series.
    Crown 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._ each; with Comments, 4_s._ 6_d._ each.
    I. Genesis to Deuteronomy.—II. Joshua to Solomon.—III. Kings
    and Prophets.—IV. The Gospel Times.—V. Apostolic Times.

    =History of Christian Names.= New Edition. Crown 8vo. 7_s._
    6_d._

    =The Life of John Coleridge Patteson=, Missionary Bishop. 2
    vols. crown 8vo. 12_s._

    =The Pupils of St. John.= Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 6_s._

    =Pioneers and Founders=; or, Recent Workers in the Mission
    Field. Crown 8vo. 6_s._

    =The Herb of the Field=: Reprinted from “Chapters on Flowers”
    in _The Magazine for the Young_. A New Edition, Revised. Crown
    8vo. 5_s._


THE GIFT-BOOK OF THE YEAR. With nearly 400 Pictures.

The GLOBE says:—“The illustrations in this magazine continue to be the
most artistic published in any English miscellany.”

The English Illustrated Magazine, 1887.

A Handsome Volume, consisting of over 800 closely-printed pages, and
containing nearly 400 Woodcut Illustrations of various sizes, bound in
extra cloth, coloured edges, price 8_s._

A MAGAZINE FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD.

The GUARDIAN says:—“THE ENGLISH ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE is full of good
matter in the way both of writing and drawing.... It is a capital
magazine for all tables and all times.”

The English Illustrated Magazine

(PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED).

Published Monthly. Single Numbers, price 6_d._; by post, 8_d._ Yearly
Subscription, including Double Number, post-free, 8_s._

THE ENGLISH ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE is designed for the entertainment of the
home, and for the instruction and amusement of young and old, and it is
conducted in the belief that every section of its readers, in whatever
direction their tastes and interests may tend, are prepared to demand and
to appreciate the best that can be offered to them.

MACMILLAN & CO., London.




                            WHAT BOOKS TO LEND
                                   AND
                               WHAT TO GIVE

                                    BY
                            CHARLOTTE M. YONGE
                                AUTHOR OF
        ‘THE HEIR OF REDCLYFFE’ ‘CAMEOS FROM ENGLISH HISTORY’ ETC.

                              [Illustration]

                                  LONDON
                      NATIONAL SOCIETY’S DEPOSITORY
                          SANCTUARY, WESTMINSTER

                         [_All rights reserved_]

                                PRINTED BY
                 SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE
                                  LONDON




[Illustration]




CONTENTS.


                                              PAGE

    INTRODUCTION                                 5

    LITTLE ONES                                 16

    JUNIOR CLASSES                              19

    SENIOR CLASSES                              22

    BOYS                                        29

    DRAWING-ROOM STORIES                        35

    ON THE CATECHISM                            41

    ON CONFIRMATION                             43

    ON THE PRAYER-BOOK                          44

    BOOKS BEARING ON HOLY SCRIPTURE             46

    ALLEGORIES AND ALLEGORICAL TALES            51

    HISTORICAL TALES                            55

    MYTHOLOGY                                   68

    NOVELETTES AND NOVELS                       70

    FAIRY TALES                                 75

    MOTHERS’ MEETINGS                           77

    FOR MISSIONARY WORKING-PARTIES              85

    IMPROVING BOOKS                             88

    HISTORY                                     93

    BIOGRAPHY                                   96

    CHURCH HISTORY                              99

    NATURAL HISTORY                            101

    SCIENCE AND INVENTION                      104

    RELIGIOUS BOOKS                            106

    MAGAZINES                                  108

    PENNY READINGS                             111

        INDEX                                  117

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




WHAT BOOKS TO LEND

AND

WHAT TO GIVE.




INTRODUCTION.


Wholesome and amusing literature has become almost a necessity among the
appliances of parish work. The power of reading leads, in most cases, to
the craving for books. If good be not provided, evil will be only too
easily found, and it is absolutely necessary to raise the taste so as to
lead to a voluntary avoidance of the profane and disgusting.

Books of a superior class are the only means of such cultivation. It
has been found that where really able and interesting literature is to
be had, there is much less disposition to prey upon garbage. And the
school lessons on English have this effect, that they make book-language
comprehensible far more widely than has hitherto been the case.

A library is an almost indispensable adjunct to a school, if the children
are to be lured to stay at home instead of playing questionable games in
the dark, or by gaslight, out of doors; and an amusing story is the best
chance of their not exasperating the weary father with noise. If the
boy is not to betake himself to ‘Jack Sheppard’ literature, he must be
beguiled by wholesome adventure. If the girl is not to study the ‘penny
dreadful,’ her notions must be refined by the tale of high romance or
pure pathos.

The children at school are often eager readers, especially if they have
sensible parents who forbid roaming about in the evening. There ought
always to be a school library unless the children are provided for in
the general parish library; but even this requires careful selection.
Weak, dull, or unnatural books may be absolutely harmful when falling
into rude or scornful hands. For instance, a country lad should not
have a book where a farmer gives a prize for climbing an elm-tree to
take a blackbird’s nest, such a proceeding being equally against the
nature of farmers, blackbirds, and elms. Seafaring lads should not have
incorrectly worded accounts of wrecks; and where more serious matters
come in, there should be still greater care to be strong, true, and real.
Boys especially should not have childish tales with weak morality or
‘washy’ piety; but should have heroism and nobleness kept before their
eyes; and learn to despise all that is untruthful or cowardly and to
respect womanhood. True manhood needs, above all earthly qualities, to
be impressed on them, and books of example (not precept) with heroes,
whose sentiments they admire, may always raise their tone, sometimes
individually, sometimes collectively.

Men, however, must have manly books. Real solid literature alone will
arrest their attention. They grudge the trouble of reading what they do
not accept as truth, unless it is some book whose fame has reached their
ears, and to have read which they regard as an achievement.

Where grown men are subscribers to a library, it should have standard
works of well-known reputation.

Travels, biographies, not too long, poetry, histories of contemporaneous
events, and fiction of the kind that may be called classical, should be
the staple for them. It is hardly advisable to attempt to give a list
for them. Their books belong to general literature, with which I do not
wish to meddle, and besides, reading men mostly inhabit towns where
there are generally Institutes from which they can obtain books. In the
country, when the clever cobbler or gardener soars above the village
library, he will generally have a decided notion of what he wants, and
will respect a special loan from our own shelves. He may take to some
line in natural science, or have some personal cause for interest in a
colony; but in general, the labourer would rather smoke than read in his
hours of rest, and even when laid aside in a hospital, newspaper scraps
pasted into a book are often more welcome to him than more continuous
subjects. Above all, he resents being _written down to_ or laughed at;
and calling him Hodge and Chawbacon is the sure way to alienate him.

Books with strong imitations of dialect are to be avoided. They are
almost unintelligible to those who know the look of a word in its right
spelling, though they might miscall it, and do not recognise it when
phonetically travestied to imitate a local dialect, as for instance by
_ah_ for _I_. Moreover, they feel it a caricature of their language, and
are very reasonably insulted. They do not appreciate simplicity, but are
in the stage of civilisation when long words are rather preferred, partly
as a compliment, partly as a new language. Complicated phrases are often
too much for them, but polysyllables need not be avoided, if such are
really needed to express an idea, and will do it better than any shorter
word.

Though men either read with strong appetites or not at all, their wives,
in these days of education, generally love fiction. They do not want to
be improved, but they like to lose their cares for a little while in
some tale that excites either tears or laughter. It is all very well to
say that they ought to have no time for reading. An industrious thrifty
woman has little or none, but the cottager’s wife who does as little
needlework, washing, or tidying as possible, has a good many hours to
spend in gossip or in reading. She may get cheap sensational novels,
and the effects on a weak and narrow mind are often very serious. The
only thing to be done is to take care that she has access to a full
supply of what can do her no harm, and may by reiteration do her good,
though the links between book and action are in many cases never joined.
Sometimes they are not connected at all, sometimes a strong impression is
unexpectedly made. But this class of women must have incident, pathos,
and sentiment to attract them. The old-fashioned book where Betty rebukes
Polly in set language for wearing a red cloak instead of a grey one, and
eating new bread instead of old, will meet with no attention. But if the
moral of the tale be sound, and the tone of the characters who bespeak
sympathy, high, pure, and good, the standard of the reader, however
frivolous, must be insensibly raised. At any rate, by withholding books
because the cottage woman ought to be too busy to want them, we do not
render her more industrious, but we leave her exposed to catering for
herself in undesirable regions.

There remain the thrifty, sensible, good women who, if they read at all,
do so in their Sunday leisure, and like a serious book. Neither variety
of woman likes a book manifestly for children lent to themselves, though
they do enjoy anything about a baby from the maternal point of view.

There are such different degrees of intelligence and civilisation among
the women who frequent mothers’ meetings that it is difficult to make
suggestions applying to all. Some of these meetings are attended so
irregularly that it is not possible to read anything continuous, whereas
in others a sustained interest promotes regularity. A little religious
instruction or exhortation, a little domestic or sanitary instruction,
and a lively or pathetic narrative seem to answer best, and I have
endeavoured to collect the titles of books useful in this respect. The
two first, however, are best given extempore if a clergyman will come for
the first, and a lady who has attended ambulance classes can be secured
for the second.

The lad or young man species comes next. There are a few of these with a
thirst for information, and it is important to supply this in a sound and
wholesome form. Some like poetry, but the general run can only be induced
to read at all by adventurous or humorous tales.

Those who act as Sunday school teachers may, however, be led to study
books bearing on the subjects they have to teach, or to get up for
certificates, and thus may be brought to take an interest in religious
literature, which may deepen as they grow older.

There is always, too, a certain proportion who have a strong turn for
fact, and like to have solid truth before them. Of course all these can
read the same books as the elder men, and even more difficult ones, as
their education has gone farther; but they need more that is light, easy,
and inviting, and a lending-library or reading-room requires a supply
fitted for both.

It is a pity there is not more good biography suited for this purpose.
The popularity of Miss Marsh’s ‘Hedley Vicars’ showed what a book written
without too much detail and with general interest might be. Some of
Smiles’s biographies come near the mark, also some American ones, and
those shilling books of Cassell’s called ‘The World’s Workers,’ also some
published by Nelson and by Blackie.

Good books of travels, too, are increasing favourites; also such books
as ‘Her Majesty’s Mail,’ and ‘Engine-Driving Life.’ In fact, whatever
_wholesomely_ interests our own households may well be sent into the
club-room, provided it do not presuppose too much culture. Many of these
books may be bought second-hand at a cheap rate from the Libraries.
And there should be a good stock of standard fiction: Scott, Dickens,
Fenimore Cooper, are all to be had at almost any price, and would pretty
well supply in themselves the requirements of reading-room fiction.

The corresponding class of girls and young women are for the most
part indiscriminate devourers of fiction, and, like the women before
mentioned, need to have their appetite rightly directed. But there is
more hope of them than of their elders, and their ideal is capable of
being raised by high-minded tales, which may refine their notions. The
semi-religious novel or novelette is to them moralising put into action,
and the most likely way of reaching them.

We must not be too hasty to condemn their frivolous tastes. Whether in
business or in service, they are tired, the book is recreation, and
they cannot be expected to want to improve themselves when their brains
and bodies are alike weary. Still we can supply them with books that
will not give them false views of life, and that will foster enthusiasm
for courage and truth, make vulgarity disgusting, and show religion as
the only true spring of life. Through classes for Sunday teachers, and
Communicants’ or Bible classes, some spirit of religious study may be
infused.

As to secular self-improvement, the students will always be few and far
between, and the experience of most libraries is that there is little or
no demand for improving books. So much is _taught_ that there is little
inclination to learn. A reaction sometimes comes to men, but seldom to
women, whose home industries and occupations necessarily absorb them so
that their reading must be either devotional or recreative.

Thus there is very little call for improving books in the lending
library, in proportion to those meant for recreation; but I would urge
that they should be used for prizes. At present, the usual habit is
to choose gay outsides and pretty pictures, with little heed to the
contents, but it should be remembered that the lent book is ephemeral,
read in a week and passed on, while the prize remains, is exhibited to
relatives and friends, is read over and over, becomes a resource in
illness, and forms part of the possessions to be handed on to the next
generation. Therefore, after the infant period, the reward book should
generally be of some worthiness, either religious, improving, or at least
standard fiction. Weakness and poverty of thought should be avoided,
especially as these books may fall into the hands of clever, ungodly men,
and serve to excite their mockery. It should be remembered that the child
to whom the book is given will not always remain a child, and therefore
that it is better to let the new and cherished possession go beyond its
present level of taste or capacity.

The elder lad, whose schooldays are over, sometimes begins to waken to
intelligence, and to be ready to seek information, in some cases being
glad of really deep reading on scientific, political, or theological
subjects, and it is all-important to preoccupy his mind with sound views
before he meets with specious trash. Many indeed both of lads and men are
absorbed in actual practical life and never read at all, or nothing but
newspapers. Yet even these when laid low by illness will accept a book to
pass away the weary hours.

Nothing, of course, can equal the effect of personal influence, from
schoolmaster, clergyman, or lady, but each of these may find books, lent,
recommended, or read aloud, of great assistance.

Some books of advice deprecate reading aloud in Sunday schools. My own
experience, now of many years, is that it is of great assistance in
impressing the scholars, and gives great pleasure. I have been told of my
old pupils mentioning it as one of the enjoyments of their younger days;
and when a part of a story has been missed by absence, the connection is
eagerly supplied by the listeners who have been present. Moreover, those
books in the lending library are always most sought after which have been
read aloud, and sometimes elucidated, either at the Sunday school or at
the mothers’ meeting.

But books for this purpose must be carefully selected, with a view to
the capacities and tastes of the listeners, and be read really well and
dramatically, watching the eyes of the hearers—a rapid or monotonous
utterance is almost useless, and inattention leads to bad habits.

There is no reason against giving tales about persons in different
stations of life from that of those who receive them, and in fact they
are often preferred; but it is as well to avoid those that deal with
temptations or enjoyments out of reach of the school-child; or which
dwell on beauty, finery, dainties, or any variety of pomps or vanities as
delights of wealth or rank. The enjoyment that authors have in describing
a lovely, beautifully-dressed child in a charming attitude should be
sacrificed in writing for children of any rank, unless they are to learn
vanity and affectation, or else be set to covet such pleasures.

It is curious to find how many stories have become obsolete. Not only
have the tales where vanity is displayed by wearing white stockings and

    A bonnet cocked up to display to the view
    Long ringlets of curls and a great bow of blue,

become archaic; but the stories of the good children who are household
supports and little nurses, picking up chance crumbs of instruction, have
lost all present reality such as the younger and less clever children
require.

Elder ones, if they have any imagination, prefer what does not run in the
grooves of their daily life, and some are much more willing to listen to,
or to read, what is not too obviously written for them. A book labelled
‘A tale for—’ is apt to carry a note of warning to the perverse spirits
of those to whom it is addressed.

Historical tales and those of other lands require a certain degree of
cultivation and imagination, to be appreciated. To some, even the best
are distasteful, to others they supply the element of romance. Those that
have a charm about them of character and adventure, fitting them for
almost all readers, have been put into the groups intended for the age
they suit, as well as into their places as illustrations of history.

I endeavour to give here a classified list that may be an assistance in
the choice of books. It is _not_ an advertisement. Most of the books I
have personally proved. No doubt many readers will be disappointed at
omissions, but it is quite impossible to answer for all the books in
existence, and my object here is to suggest the fittest for the purposes
of lending, reading aloud, or giving. It is no condemnation of a work
that its name does not appear in this list—only it has either not become
known to me, or has not appeared to me so eminently desirable as the
others.

The lists of books in the present work have been drawn up in different
gradations, a great number of them having been actually proved by reading
aloud. There are many very fairly suitable for _lending_, not equally
good for reading aloud, as lengthiness, description, and over-moralising,
hang on hand with a mixed class; and, in other cases, the reader seems to
be inculcating with authority all that is uttered, and thus gives a sense
of preaching instead of amusing.

The tales that have any dissenting bias, or which appear to involve false
doctrine, are of course omitted, though all those here mentioned do not
belong to the same school of thought within the Church.

The classified list then includes books for:—

_Little Ones._—Fit to be read or given to children from four to eight.

_Junior Classes._—Children from seven or eight to ten or eleven.

_Senior Classes._—From ten upwards.

_Boys._—The books may be read by girls also, but most boys will not read
girls’ books, therefore their literature is put separately.

_Drawing Room Stories._—The best are mentioned here, but all, though
excellent, are, on experience, out of the ken of the school child.

    _On the Catechism._
    _On Confirmation._
    _On the Prayer Book._
    _On the Bible._
    _Allegories._
    Stories on Church History.
         ”     English History.
         ”     General History.
    _Mythological Tales._
    _Novelettes._
    _Fairy Tales._
    _Mothers’ Meetings._
    _Mission Working Parties._
    _Descriptions of Countries._
    _Adventures._
    _Biography._
    _History._
    _Church History._
    _Natural History and Popular Science._
    _Religious Books._
    _Magazines._
    _Penny Readings._

It should be clearly understood that nobody is urged to have anything
like all the books here mentioned, but that the object is to answer the
oft-recurring question—Where shall I find a book suited for such and such
a purpose?

I have added a few suggestions of extracts for penny readings, but it
is not easy to collect enough that do not verge on buffoonery, or that
have no element of vulgarity; and indeed there is so much variation of
tastes according to the tone and training of the audience, that it is
hardly possible to tell what will be suited for hearers of each degree of
culture. Some delight in pathos or adventure, and others will do nothing
but laugh, and become noisy at anything that is not highly comic. Such
books for the purpose as I have seen, between difficulty about copyright
and desire of novelty and drollery, do not avoid vulgarity. N.B.—It is
advisable to inspect thoroughly everything offered by volunteers for
reading, recitation, or singing.

It has, however, been thought better not to enter upon the tracts and
sermons, such as a parish priest or district visitor would give for
private use or specific purpose, as they are devotional, and scarcely to
be spread broad-cast by the Library. Every librarian must cater for his
own clients according to their tastes and needs. No doubt much is here
left out that will be found useful in some places, but the attempt has
been made to offer suggestions, and to collect, from various quarters,
names that may serve to assist in the selection of books for the various
needs of a parish.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




LITTLE ONES.


    The books in the following list are what have been read to
    children from five or six to eight years old and proved to be
    interesting to them. Their eyes and attention soon show whether
    the book is liked. And, though it may hardly be believed, it
    is more difficult to write a story suited to them than to any
    other class, since it must be perfectly easy and simple, and
    yet have some interest in it, such as they can understand.
    Stories that are in fact a study of children with peculiar
    ways and odd sayings are of no use. The tale must take the
    child’s point of view, yet without obviously writing _down_
    to its level, and any moral must be pointed as tersely and
    briefly as possible. Unluckily several of those I have found
    most successful have gone out of print—namely, ‘The White
    Kitten,’ and ‘Out in the Dark,’ in early packets of the books
    Mr. Burns used to publish, and ‘Little Lucy’ and ‘A Tale of
    a Tail’ (S.P.C.K.). I have looked over multitudes of tiny
    books, but only a few have the special charm that will keep
    a whole class devouring the reader with their eyes, and be
    welcomed even if read over and over again. I have not here
    mentioned Mrs. Ewing’s beautiful series of verse-books for
    children, with their charming illustrations, because they are
    really studies of childhood, and more fit for the drawing-room
    than the cottage or school. The same may be said of the very
    pretty Everyday Fables, the letterpress of which is quite
    beyond little children. The best thing for the youngest class
    of four, five, or six years old, is the ‘Child’s own Picture
    Paper’ (Dean), Aunt Louisa’s books (Warne), and the ‘Child’s
    Illustrated Scripture History’ (S.P.C.K.), 4 parts, price 1_s._
    each. Or, if the class be too large for showing them pictures
    in a book, detached ones on an easel are useful. One or two
    sacred ones, well explained, are enough, and a few secular
    ones may follow. Let me hint that undraped figures, shown to
    poor children, are undesirable, and that if there is a mistake
    in the accessories, by some fatality, they are sure to admire
    it. Cassell’s ‘Little Pet’s Posy,’ 1_s._ 6_d._, or ‘Little
    Chimes,’ 1_s._ 6_d._, will give amusing bits to read to the
    tiny children, but _lending_ is of no use unless they are ill.
    A complete set of pictures illustrating the Gospels, or the
    lessons for nearly every Sunday in the Christian year, can
    be arranged from the stores of the S.P.C.K., the R.T.S., and
    Cassell’s ‘Child’s Bible and Life of Christ,’ 7_s._ 6_d._

=1. Children’s Album.= (Cassell) 1_s._ 6_d._

=2. Baby’s Album.= (Cassell)

=3. Miss Angelina.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_d._

A doll, lost by a young lady, and prized by a poor little cripple till
the owner is discovered, and there is a great struggle of honesty on the
one hand, generosity on the other.

=4. Tales for Me to read to Myself.= (Masters) 2_s._ 6_d._

The little boy who has to take a donkey cart to market for the first
time, and is teased by rude companions, excites unfailing interest.

=5. Langley Little Ones.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._

This contains several short tales mentioned below: ‘Fanny’s Doll,’ ‘Bully
Brindle,’ ‘Snowdrop’s Eggs,’ &c.

=6. Our Ethel.= (S.P.C.K.) 6_d._

Should be read to small children apt to be put in charge of smaller ones.

=7. Little Men and Little Women.= (Walter Smith) 2_d._

Rather disjointed, but fit for the tinies.

=8. Quack, Quack.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

Inculcating the penny savings bank.

=9. Patz and Putz, or the Story of Two Bears.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

Interests a little class.

=10. Tumble-down Dick.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_d._

Birds’-nesting. A wholesome lesson.

=11. A Miller, a Mollar, a Ten o’Clock Scholar.= By C. M. YONGE. 3d.

On playing truant.

=12. Fanny’s Doll.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

For small children.

=13. Idle Harry.= (Walter Smith) 3_d._

=14. Leonard the Lion Heart.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 9_d._

On boasting.

=15. The Apple Tree.= (Walter Smith) 1_d._

A naughty and a good little boy under temptation. I have known of an
impression made by it.

=16. Playing with Fire.= (Walter Smith) 1_d._

A wholesome warning.

=17. Little Susy’s Six Birthdays.= By Mrs. PRENTICE. (Nelson) 2_s._

Popularity proved. Circumstantial enough to be delightful to little
children.

=18. Fanny Sylvester.= By Mrs. CUPPLES. (Nelson) 9_d._

A lonely town child transplanted into the country.

=19. Bully Brindle.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

Two small children sent out in the dark to fetch help after an accident.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




JUNIOR CLASSES.

_For Children from Eight to Ten Years old._


    The books here given are of a somewhat homely and simple order,
    such as are understood and liked by children without much
    cultivation or knowledge of the world—average ones, in fact;
    for the intelligent and eager ones, or those who have some home
    culture, need something of a higher order.

=20. Louie White’s Hop-picking.= By AMABEL JENNER. (Griffith, Farran &
Co.) 6_d._

A good picture of Kentish hopping, introducing a brisk little London
maiden, as inferior to her homely cousins in practical usefulness as she
is superior in knowledge.

=21. The Lion Battalion.= By MARY HULLAH. (Hatchards) 2_s._ 6_d._

Several short stories. The first is of a tiny German boy who makes
imaginary soldiers of buttons and abstracts a whole brilliant regiment
from his little friend’s jacket. It is less good than the second, ‘The
Fireman’s Little Maid,’ a friendship between a fireman and a little
neglected girl. Read aloud, it has charmed a third standard class and a
mothers’ meeting.

=22. Smuts and Diamonds.= By SELINA GAYE. (Remington) 5_s._

The first tale is on Christian brotherhood; the second, ‘Who did It?’
is of the mysterious painting of the effigy of a pig hung at the pork
butcher’s. It is my resource when I have to keep a mixed troop of
children quiet while waiting. The third, ‘Three Little Sisters,’ is a
warning to little nurses to be faithful.

=23. Golden Gorse.= By FLORENCE WILFORD. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

A London child’s first visit to the country, with her help to her more
backward cousins.

=24. The Heavy Sixpence.= (S.P.C.K.) 3_d._

An overcharge, weighing down the conscience.

=25. Missy and Master.= By MARY BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

Missy had been a member of a circus troupe. Master was the pony she used
to ride. Her taming down in an orphan asylum is well told.

=26. The Christmas Mummers.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

This story preserves the old Hampshire custom of ‘Mumming.’

=27. Langley School.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_s._

=28. Lads and Lasses of Langley.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._

=29. Langley Adventures.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._ 6_d._

‘Langley School’ was written many years ago. The others are of the
present day, of examinations, &c.

=30. Pickle and his Page Boy.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._

A boy and a Skye terrier who try to be faithful.

=31. Godmother’s Whim.= (S.P.C.K.) 4_d._

A treasure concealed in a ball of worsted.

=32. Michael the Chorister.= (Walter Smith) 6_d._

One of the first tales of little choristers, and with a great simplicity
and beauty.

=33. A Bright Farthing.= By S. M. SITWELL. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

A good child’s story of the temptation to conceit and self-exaltation.

=34. Grannie’s Wardrobe.= (S.P.C.K.) 9_d._

A case of curiosity and untruth, well told.

=35. The Railroad Children.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 6_d._

May be a help with unbaptised children.

=36. The Secret of a Ball of Wool.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_d._

Is the same idea as the ‘Godmother’s Whim,’ but is told by a Russian
nurse and is more amusing.

=37. Harriet and her Sister.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

A warning against concealing an accident; but the child left alone all
day in charge of a baby is a thing of the past.

=38. Snowdrop’s Eggs.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

Against pilfering.

=39. The Third Standard.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

The consequences of children copying each other’s marks in school.

=40. Wolf.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

Adventures of a set of Christmas carollers.

=41. The Wood Cart and other Tales.= By F. M. PEARD. (Walter Smith) 2_s._

Excellent tales of peasant life in France which delight English children.

=42. The Old Garden Door.= (Walter Smith) 2_d._

A little girl who gets into a scrape by aiding in surreptitious
transactions between a hawker and some boarding-school young ladies. The
children left at home to the care of a young elder are things of the
past, but the child nature is true in all times.

=43. Uncle Henry’s Present.= (Walter Smith) 2_d._

A droll lesson on curiosity.

=44. The White Satin Shoes.= (Walter Smith) 2_d._

Equally telling on vanity.

=45. Cheap Jack.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

Adventures of some beads ill obtained.

=46. Mary and Florence.= By A. FRASER TYTLER. (Hatchards) 3_s._ 6_d._

This is an unfailing favourite, a children’s classic of fifty years’
standing.

=47. The Star in the Dustheap.= By the Hon. MRS. GREENE. (Warne) 3_s._
6_d._

Very touching.

=48. Froggy’s Little Brother.= By BRENDA. (Shaw) 6_d._ or 3_s._ 6_d._

A touching tale of street Arabs. Interest in it seems to be uncertain
among children—one class has liked it, another virtually hissed it by
inattention.

=49. Little Meg’s Children.= By HESBA STRETTON. (R.T.S.) 1_s._ 6_d._

More powerful than ‘Froggie.’ Also of London children in a garret, where
the faithful little elder sister struggles to take care of the little
ones till her father’s return from a voyage. This is as fit for mothers
as for children. There are multitudes more of these street Arab tales,
most of them written from fancy. It is possible to have too many of them,
so only the names of these two best are given here.

=50. The City Violet.= By C. WINCHESTER. (Seeley) 5_s._

There are violent improbabilities here, but children like the book, and
listen to it eagerly. The lesson of Christian love is taught by an old
bedridden woman to various classes of children, among whom are some of
the circus children, who have such a fascination for young readers.

=51. Little Lives and a Great Love.= By FLORENCE WILFORD. (Masters) 2_s._
6_d._

Four tales designed to illustrate the text, ‘The love of Christ
constraineth us,’ in a scale gradually ascending. Of the four, only the
first is historical.

=52. Helpful Sam.= (Griffith, Farran, & Co.) 6_d._

A very real and quaint young chimney sweep.

=53. The Beautiful Face.= By Mrs. MITCHELL. (Masters) 4_s._ 6_d._

A veritable child’s romance, not attempting to be historical, but
graceful, tender, and bright enough to delight children.

=54. Dandy=. (S.P.C.K.) 6_d._

A pleasant story of a lost dog.

=55. Ben Sylvester’s Word.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._ or 1_s._

The value of truth in a witness. The murder in this has secured its
popularity.

=56. Little May and her friend Conscience.= By Mrs. CUPPLES. (Nelson)
9_d._

A debate with conscience.

=57. Tim’s Basket.= (Nelson) 6_d._

Might cheer a crippled child.

=58. Story of a Needle.= By A.L.O.E. (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

Autobiographical.

=59. The Two Watches.= By the Author of ‘Copsley Annals.’ (Nelson) 1_s._

Didactic but lively.

=60. Baby’s Prayerbook.= By Mrs. SITWELL. (S.P.C.K.) 8_d._

A tiny girl unconsciously leading her elder brother to a right course.

=61. Wings and Stings.= By A.L.O.E. (Nelson) 1_s._

Once this was read to a class who delighted in it. Another year it fell
flat, owing, perhaps, to the children having less imagination.

=62. It’s his Way.= By the Author of ‘Copsley Annals.’ (Nelson) 1_s._

Very good for reading aloud.

=63. Northope Cave.= By MRS. SITWELL. (S.P.C.K.)

Seaside adventures, a brave little self-devoted fisher-boy among babies.




[Illustration]




SENIOR CLASSES.

_For Children from Ten Years old to Twelve: Fourth Standard and upwards._


    Most children are advanced enough at this age to prefer what
    is a little out of their own field; though here there will
    always be the differing tastes for adventure or character, and
    imaginative or matter-of-fact literature. What will fall flat
    with some will be appreciated by others; and, in general, what
    has been read to them is best liked. Explanations can be given,
    right intonations are explanatory in themselves, and foreign or
    unusual names are better understood.

=64. Under the Lilacs.= By LOUISA ALCOTT. (Sampson Low) 2_s._

A stray boy and poodle, escaped from a circus, arrive in the middle of
a doll’s feast held by a widow’s little girls. The house becomes their
home, and the scenes are delightful, especially when the poor dog is lost
and comes back _minus_ his tail.

=65. On Angels’ Wings.= By the Hon. Mrs. GREENE. (Nelson) 5_s._

Pathetic and tender. A deformed and sickly child in a German town has to
part with her father on his summons to the war. Little Violet’s patience,
the drolleries of her little friends, the kindness of the old policeman,
and the thoughtlessness of her young nurse go to children’s hearts.

=66. The Abbey by the Sea.= By Mrs. MOLESWORTH. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

A furniture designer of evidently much cultivation with his little
daughter by the sea-side. Perhaps too ideal, but refining.

=67. The Golden Thread.= By Dr. NORMAN MCLEOD. (Isbister) 2_s._ 6_d._

This will also be found among the allegories, but it is, even as a
mere story or romance, so charming to young listeners that it is here
introduced.

=68. Feats on the Fiord.= By HARRIET MARTINEAU. (Routledge) 1_s._ and
1_s._ 6_d._ (With 40 illustrations, 2_s._)

Too lively and amusing to be out of date. Norwegian life is made perhaps
rather too rose-coloured, but the adventures have a merit and interest
apart from actual truth to nature.

=69. The Ghost of Greythorn Manor.= (Nelson) 6_s._

May be useful where children or servants fear a haunted house.

=70. Little Rosa.= By Mrs. PRENTICE. (Nelson) 6_d._

Fittest for the poor children to whom Father is a word of fear.

=71. The Magpie’s Nest.= (Nelson) 6_d._

=72. The Children on the Plains.= (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

Adventures on the Prairies with Red Indians; a good deal of religious
talk.

=73. Daughter of the Regiment.= (Sunday School Union) 2_s._

Children captured by Red Indians.

=74. Leila, or the Island.= By M. FRASER TYTLER. (Hatchards) 3_s._ 6_d._

Leila has always been an unfailing favourite. The second and third parts
of her story are unequal to the first volume, which is improbable enough,
but such pretty and pleasant reading, and so sound-hearted, that it is
quite a child’s classic.

=75. Mr. Burke’s Nieces.= (Cassell) 2_s._

Confusion of identity between two children brought home from India, one
of whom the Irish barrister believes to be his niece. It turns upon
jealousy.

=76. Little Hinges.= (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

A child’s disobedience in apparently a small matter leads to great family
misfortunes. A sound lesson against ‘doing right in our own eyes.’

=77. The Thorn Fortress.= By M. BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

This will be classed among historical tales, as it belongs to the period
of the Thirty Years’ War, but the interest is sufficient to win children
quite ignorant of the history of the period. The inhabitants of a village
in the track of the armies have a refuge in the forest, impregnably
fenced with thorn bushes. The adventures of a little maiden, who falls
into the hands of the marauders, and wins their heart by her innocent
sweetness, are enjoyed by all readers and hearers.

=78. Max Krömer.= By HESBA STRETTON. (R.T.S.) 1_s._ 6_d._

The Siege of Strasburg from a child’s point of view.

=79. Lost in Egypt.= By Miss M. L. WHATELY. (R.T.S.) 4_s._

The adventures of the little daughter of an English engineer, suddenly
left an orphan in a remote place, and abandoned by the servants. She is
adopted by a peasant woman, and afterwards has experience of several
Egyptian houses before she is recovered by her English grandmother. Here
and there it is lengthy, and some conversations might be spared, but it
has been listened to and read with great interest.

=80. The Blue Ribbons.= By ANNA HARRIET DRURY. (Kerby) 3_s._ 6_d._

Founded on the anecdote of Marie Antoinette acting fairy to the child she
met in the wood.

=81. Hans Brinker, or the Silver Skates.= By MARY M. DODGE. (Sampson Low)
1_s._

Delightful scenes of Dutch winter life.

=82. The Oak Staircase.= By M. and C. LEE. (Griffith, Farran, & Co.)
3_s._ 6_d._

This is the best for reading aloud of the three historical tales by
these ladies. It begins with a child wedding in the days of Charles II.
The little bride (a Countess) is sent to school at Taunton, where the
mistress, a Huguenot, is enthusiastic in Monmouth’s cause, and the poor
girls are among ‘the maids of Taunton.’ The young husband intercedes, but
goes into banishment with the Jacobites, and his wife has in after times
to procure his pardon, after which they begin their married life. The
book has been found very attractive to children.

=83. The White Chapel.= By ESMÉ STUART. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

A dreamy child’s adventure, very prettily told, connecting the little
white curtained bed with the white chantry chapel in a cathedral.

=84. The Carved Cartoon.= By AUSTIN CLARE. (S.P.C.K.) 4_s._

This has been much enjoyed when read aloud to somewhat intelligent
Sunday-school children in the country, and Londoners always like it. The
title is unfortunate, for a cartoon cannot be carved, and what is meant
is a copy of a cartoon made by Grinling Gibbons, whose adventures in the
Plague and Fire of London are made very interesting.

=85. Ivo and Verena.= (Masters) 2_s._

A beautiful little Fouqué-like tale of early Christianity in the North.

=86. Peggy and other Tales.= By FLORENCE MONTGOMERY. (Cassell) 2_s._

This may be useful where temperance tales are required, though we rather
wonder at the father who chose such a subject to amuse his little
children.

=87. The Ambition of Kate Hicks.= (S.P.C.K.) 4_d._

Useful for girls going out to service.

=88. The Grey House on the Hill.= By the Hon. Mrs. GREENE. (Nelson) 2_s._
6_d._

A lonely page-boy falsely accused.

=89. I must keep the Chimes going.= By Miss ELLIOT. (Seeley) 1_s._ 6_d._

A very beautiful story of a girl in a hard place, but with a cheerful
spirit.

=90. Friarswood Post Office.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._ 6_d._

A history of a workhouse lad, founded on fact.

=91. The Pink Silk Handkerchief.= (Walter Smith) 2_d._

A useful tale of deceit and vanity.

=92. The Girls of Flaxby.= By C. R. COLERIDGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._

Pupil-teachers shown in a manner useful to them and still more so to
those who have to deal with them.

=93. Lads and Lasses of Langley.= By C. M. YONGE. 2_s._ (See No. 28.)

Stories of village life, chiefly for the elder children; curiosity and a
few other follies shown up.

=94. Polly Spanker’s Green Feather.= By Mrs. WALFORD. (S.P.C.K.) 4_d._

Droll disaster with finery.

=95. Sowing and Sewing.= By C. M. YONGE. (W. Smith) 1_s._ 6_d._

An endeavour practically to illustrate the Parable of the Sower.

=96. Stories of Youth and Childhood.= (Walter Smith) 2_s._

These first appeared in the ‘Magazine for the Young,’ and are very good.
Phœbe, who is sent to the hospital, is our special favourite.

=97. Copsley Annals.= By Miss ELLIOT. (Seeley) 1_s._ 6_d._

These are unusually interesting. The supposed ghost, which turns out
to be a clock whirring, excites breathless interest. The last story is
better fitted for mothers than children.

=98. The House of the Little Wizard.= (Hatchards) 3_s._ 6_d._

=99. Goldhanger Woods.= By M. AND C. LEE. (National Society) 2_s._

This calls itself a child’s romance, and has some exciting adventures.

=100. My Great Aunt’s Cat.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_d._

A droll and wholesome warning against false excuses.

=101. Uncle Ivan.= By M. BRAMSTON. (National Society) 2_s._ 6_d._

Two sisters have to guard the papers of their uncle, a political exile,
against spies. Very amusing for rather advanced readers such as pupil
teachers.

=102. Wild Thyme.= (S.P.C.K.) 4_d._

=103. Susan Pascoe’s Temptation.= (S.P.C.K.) 4_d._

The first of these is very touching, the second its continuation and a
good lesson.

=104. Self Conquest.= By FLORENCE WILFORD. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

Another rescue from a circus.

=105. Marty and the Mite Boxes.= (Shaw) 3_s._ 6_d._

An American story of contributions to a church, and the exertions of a
rough little set of choir boys.

=106. Little Jeanneton’s Work.= By C. A. JONES. (Wells Gardner, Darton, &
Co.) 3_s._ 6_d._

A little shepherdess whom the young lady of the château nearly spoils by
making her Arcadian. Very prettily illustrated.

=107. A Peep behind the Scenes.= By Mrs. WALTON. (R.T.S.) 3_s._ 6_d._

A great favourite.

=108. Nimpo’s Troubles.= (Griffith, Farran, & Co.) 3_s._ 6_d._

This is an American story of a self-willed child, which children like
very much. She chooses during her mother’s absence from home to board
with people of her own selection, and gets into very comical predicaments.

=109. A Little Step-daughter.= By the Author of the ‘Atelier du Lys.’
(National Society) 3_s._ 6_d._

A child stolen by smugglers in the wild districts of Southern France in
the time of Louis XV., taken care of by a woman who feeds silk-worms.
Very interesting.

=110. Alone in Crowds.= By ANNETTE LYSTER. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._

A youth bred up by his father on a desert island from early infancy. When
rescued and brought home he is utterly astray and perplexed in England.

=111. The Giant Killer.= By A.L.O.E. (Nelson) 3_s._

This is rather stilted, but has been much enjoyed by elder children. It
is much better than the second part ‘The Roby Family.’ As a rule, this
lady’s books are very religious, without Church teaching, and a little
too stiff in language, but useful.

=112. Bear and Forbear.= (Cassell) 2_s._

An excellent tale of an Edinburgh newspaper boy.

=113. Rhoda’s Reward.= By Mrs. MARSHALL. (Cassell) 1_s._

A young girl who overcomes a strong temptation.

=114. For Half-a-Crown.= By ESMÉ STUART. (National Society) 3_s._

This is the price of a poor Italian baby bought out of the slums of
Portsmouth, and bred up to be a very spirited and interesting little
person.

=115. Three Stories for Working Girls.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

This, like ‘Kate Temple’s Mate,’ is chiefly fitted for the rough girls of
factories.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




BOYS.


    Boys are here treated as separate subjects. The mild tales that
    girls will read simply to pass away the time are ineffective
    with them. Many will not read at all. Those who will read
    require something either solid, droll, or exciting. There are
    lads who will study books of real information with all their
    might, and will take up pursuits of science, or enter into
    poetry. This, however, comes (if at all) at the age when school
    is over and labour has begun, so that intellectual occupation
    is not the task but the refreshment. The solid, therefore, is
    not attempted in the present list. What it aims at giving is
    such a choice of books as boys will listen to with interest,
    or if they read in quieter moments, or in illness, may find so
    amusing as not to be tempted to think that nothing diverting or
    stimulating is to be found beyond the Penny Dreadful. If their
    taste can be kept unsullied during the time of growth, there is
    more hope for it afterwards.

    The books here mentioned are all suitable for circulation in
    any general library, but are placed separately as an answer to
    the oft-asked question, ‘Do you know of anything my boys _will_
    read?’

    Many well-intentioned and really pretty books are omitted, even
    though written _for_ boys, because they do not seem to hit off
    the peculiar taste of that large class. Others are omitted
    because, though there is little harm in them, and we should not
    object to seeing a lad reading them, if of his own catering,
    yet parish libraries and school rewards give a kind of
    recommendation to a book which makes it needful that it should
    be beyond censure. For instance, that exciting and entrancing
    tale, ‘King Solomon’s Mines,’ is marred by the falsehoods told
    to the natives, and (more injuriously perhaps) by the constant
    reference to bad language on the part of the naval lieutenant,
    in a style to confirm boys in their notion of its being a manly
    fashion. Its successor, ‘The Phantom City,’ has none of these
    defects. Be it remembered that this catalogue is only intended
    to suggest and assist, not to exclude, and likewise that the
    works therein are not merely suited to lads, for though girls
    will often greatly prefer a book about the other sex, boys
    almost universally disdain books about girls.

=116. Robinson Crusoe.= By DEFOE. (Warne), 1_s._ 6_d._ (S.P.C.K.), 3_s._
6_d._ (Cassell), 3_s._ 6_d._ (Marcus Ward), 1_s._ 6_d._, 2_s._, 3_s._

We need only name this first and best of all desert island tales, which
ought to be read as an English classic by all young people—not boys alone.

=117. The Swiss Family Robinson.= (Warne), 1_s._ 6_d._, (Cassell), 5_s._,
(Marcus Ward), 2_s._ 6_d._, 3_s._

It is a curious fact that this book was written by the tutor of Baron
Humboldt and his brothers. It certainly encouraged a considerable
spirit of adventure, and perhaps was partly inspired by the pupils’
interest in it as it proceeded. The second edition here mentioned is
well illustrated, and is a fresh translation, more accurate perhaps, but
scarcely so inviting to the childish English reader as the first more
freely abridged version. The adventures are unfortunately more charming
than possible in either naval or scientific eyes.

=118. Masterman Ready.= By Captain MARRYAT. (Warne) 5_s._

The outcome of a sailor’s disgust at the Swiss family’s raft of tubs
and other impossibilities. Written with the ability of a distinguished
novelist, and exercising over the children the fascination of the two
preceding tales.

=119. The Island Queen.= By R. M. BALLANTYNE. (Nisbet) 3_s._ 6_d._

Here a young lady is by general consent elected to be queen of a
shipwrecked crew. Mr. Ballantyne’s tales of adventure are perfectly safe
from the moral point of view, and always have a religious tone, but
when any matter brings forward points of difference, the tone is not
that of the Church. Happily, however, there is seldom room for any such
difficulty.

=120. The Young Crusoe.= By Mrs. HOFLAND. (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

The best of this once popular author’s stories republished.

=121. The Fate of the ‘Black Swan.’= By F. FRANKFORT MOORE. (S.P.C.K.)
3_s._

A search in New Guinea for a missing brother.

=122. The Fortunes of Hassan.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

Hassan is a dog who sees a good deal of the fortunes of war in Bulgaria.

=123. The Good Ship ‘Barbara.’= By S. W. SADLER, R.N. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._
6_d._

Two brothers, one in the navy, the other in the merchant service, see a
good deal of the coast of Africa. The introduction of an ‘unattached’ and
helpless missionary is the only weak point.

=124. Ned in the Blockhouse.= (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=125. Ned in the Woods.= (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=126. Ned on the River.= (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=127. The Camp Fire and the Wigwam.= (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=128. The Lost Trail.= (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=129. Footsteps in the Forest.= (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

American, Fenimore Cooper-like adventures, but without the love or the
somewhat stilted language. There is an admirable Red Indian hero, a
Christian, who appears in all difficulties. Boys revel in these books,
which seem to have an unusual attraction for them. The three first form
the ‘Boy Pioneer Series,’ the three last the ‘Log Cabin Series.’ Many of
the real pioneers of Kentucky are introduced.

=130. Lost in the Backwoods.= By Mrs. TRAILL. (Nelson) 3_s._ 6_d._

Adventures in a Canadian forest of fifty or sixty years ago. Well worthy
of its republication.

=131. The French Prisoners.= By BERBY. (Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

The friendship that springs up between some German boys and their French
captives, well told.

=132. Treasure Island.= By R. L. STEVENSON. (Cassell) 5_s._

So exciting and engrossing that it must be mentioned, but bringing the
reader into rough company, among a good many horrors.

=133. Tom Brown’s School Days.= By T. HUGHES. (Macmillan) 2_s._ or 6_d._

The life is so fresh and wholesome in spirit that, though the sphere is
so different from that of the elementary school-boy, his tone may be
raised by it.

=134. Ascott Hope’s Tales.=

These are too numerous and have too many different publishers for
enumeration, but all are lively and wholesome tales of boyhood mostly in
school life, and are good to lend and give.

=135. The Crofton Boys.= By HARRIET MARTINEAU. (Routledge) 1_s._ and
1_s._ 6_d._ (With 40 illustrations, 2_s._)

A very attractive story of a brave little boy at school, who loses his
foot by an accident, and resolutely conceals the name of the perpetrator.

=136. Follow the Leader.= By TALBOT B. REED. (Cassell) 5_s._

Another public-school story, sound and spirited, and likely to interest.
People sometimes learn best from what does not profess to be about their
own life.

=137. In Quest of Gold on the Whanga Falls.= By C. H. JOHNSTONE.
(Cassell) 3_s._ 6_d._

Exciting Australian adventures. It is to be hoped they will not inspire
the gold fever, for which, however, ‘True Gold’ (see No. 602) may be an
antidote.

=138. The Boy with an Idea.= By Mrs. EILOART. (Warne) 2_s._ 6_d._

An inventive genius, always getting into exquisitely droll predicaments,
some of which are quite fit to do duty at a penny reading.

=139. Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea.= By JULES VERNE. Two parts.
(Low) Cloth 3_s._ 6_d._, boards, 2 parts, 1_s._ each.

=140. The Mysterious Island.= Three parts. (Low) Cloth 2_s._, boards
1_s._ each.

=141. The Earth to the Moon and a Trip round it.= (Low) Cloth 2_s._,
boards 1_s._ each.

=142. Five Weeks in a Balloon.= (Low) Cloth 2_s._, boards 1_s._

=143. Dr. Ox’s Experiment.= (Low) Cloth 2_s._, boards 1_s._

=144. The Steam House.= (Low) Two parts. Cloth 2_s._, boards 1_s._ each.

Jules Verne is a modern Baron Munchausen with an air of science and a
Frenchman’s ironical gravity. To some he is perfectly enchanting, but
there are soberer minds who are bewildered as to whether the wonders they
read of are meant for truth or fiction, and dislike him accordingly. We
have only mentioned a small selection of his translated works, but all
are perfectly safe, for he is a religious, sound-hearted man. ‘Dr. Ox’s
Experiment’ is short enough for a penny reading among intelligent people.

=145. Ben Sylvester’s Word.= (See No. 55.)

=146. Frank’s Debt.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_d._

The dull rude lad raised by better surroundings.

=147. The Little Duke.= (See No. 488.)

=148. The Caged Lion.= (See No. 410.) 6_s._

=149. Harry and Archie.= (See No. 254.)

=150. Pickle and his Page Boy.= (See No. 30.)

=151. For Fortune and Glory, a Story of the Soudan War.= By LEWIS HOUGH.
(Cassell) 5_s._

A somewhat wild story, involving adventures with an old semi-madman who
has turned Mahometan, but with a very graphic description of life in the
English army.

=152. On Board the ‘Esmeralda.’= By J. HUTCHESON. (Cassell) 3_s._ 6_d._

No harm in it, though the Squeers establishment at the beginning might
have been spared.

=153. Jackanapes.= By J. H. EWING. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

This beautiful story wins the attention of boys, but those who read it to
them find it advisable to skip the unnecessary incident of the elopement.

=154. Mutiny on the ‘Albatross.’= By F. FRANKFORT MOORE. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._
6_d._

Exactly fulfilling the boy’s description, ‘A pretty book with plenty of
killing.’

=155. Nimrod Nunn.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

A village waif becomes a brave soldier, and is killed in Egypt.

=156. Pirates’ Creek.= By S. W. SADLER. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._

=157. Tales by W. H. Kingston.=

There are so many of these, and brought out by so many publishers
(S.P.C.K.), (Griffith, Farran, & Co.), (Warne), (Shaw), (Nisbet),
(Routledge), that it is hardly possible to collect or enumerate them, and
one description answers for all. They are full of adventure, well studied
from travels and geography, perfectly safe and innocent, with more
incident than character, and very useful for those who love adventurous
tales.

=158. Tales by R. M. Ballantyne.=

These also are too numerous for individual mention. They teach much as
to manners, geography, &c., and there is a conscientious, religious tone
about both authors, but Mr. Ballantyne’s are apt to be rather confused
where any Church matter comes in question.

=159. A Hero: Philip’s Book.= By the Author of ‘John Halifax.’
(Routledge) 1_s._

A very striking picture of moral _versus_ physical courage.

=160. Straight to the Mark.= By the Rev. T. S. MILLINGTON. (R.T.S.) 5_s._

A good schoolboy tale.

=161. Paul Howard’s Captivity.= (Griffith, Farran, & Co.) 1_s._ 6_d._

A boy who propitiated his Chinese captors by his knowledge of watches.

=162. Will’s Voyages.= By F. F. MOORE. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

=163. The ‘Great Orion.’= By F. F. MOORE. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._

=164. The Adventurous Voyage of the ‘Polly.’= By S. W. SADLER. (S.P.C.K.)
3_s._

=165. Scapegrace Dick.= (See No. 460.)

=166. In the Land of the Moose, the Bear, and the Beaver.= By ACHILLES
DAUNT. (Nelson) 3_s._ 6_d._

=167. In the Bush and on the Trail.= (Nelson) 3_s._ 6_d._

Both these are beautifully got up, and will make the boy who gets either
of them for a prize happy at the moment, and sure to imbibe some real
knowledge of the places named and animals described.

=168. Yussuf the Guide.= By G. MANVILLE FENN. (Blackie) 5_s._

Travels in Asia Minor. Full of adventures and often very droll.

=169. Devon Boys.= By G. MANVILLE FENN. (Blackie) 6_s._

An excellent set of seaside adventures near Barnstaple in the old
smuggling times.

=170. The Final Reckoning.= By G. A. HENTY. (Blackie) 5_s._

Bush life in Australia in the convict times.

=171. Beyond the Himalayas.= By JOHN GEDDIE. (Nelson) 3_s._ 6_d._

=172. Lake Regions of Central Africa.= By JOHN GEDDIE. (Nelson) 3_s._
6_d._

=173. The Castaways in the Wilds of Borneo.= By MAYNE REID. (Nelson)
3_s._ 6_d._

=174. Frank Redcliffe.= (Nelson) 3_s._ 6_d._

Adventures in South America.

=175. Mark Willis.= (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

Adventures of a sailor boy.

All these are interesting tales of enterprise conveying much useful
geographical information, and wholesomely sound and amusing.




[Illustration]




DRAWING-ROOM STORIES.


    The stories under this head are chosen for their unusual
    excellence, but they deal in general with a way of life, with
    pursuits, allusions, and temptations, so much out of the line
    of the ordinary clients of the parish library that we do not
    recommend them for that purpose, although they would do no harm
    but decidedly good, so far as they were understood, and, where
    readers of a superior degree are included, would be excellent.

=176. The Langdales of Langdale End.= By ELEANOR LLOYD. (Marcus Ward)
3_s._ 6_d._

A lively, clever set of children, slightly over-independent of their
parents. They get into a scrape by secretiveness about their pleasures,
and their discussions of their clergyman might not be edifying to some
readers.

=177. Hermy, the Story of a Little Girl.= By Mrs. MOLESWORTH. (Routledge)
2_s._ 6_d._

A pleasant nursery tale.

=178. Miss Fenwick’s Failures.= By ESMÉ STUART. (Blackie) 2_s._ 6_d._

A governess’s troubles with naughty children.

=179. A York and a Lancaster Rose.= By ANNIE KEARY. (Macmillan) 6_s._

One Rose is a professor’s daughter, the other is a carpenter’s. They come
into connection at the soup kitchen of a Sisterhood, much to their mutual
benefit. The trials of the professor’s daughter are those of a large
intellectual family in a London house, where inclination often has to be
silently sacrificed.

=180. Laneton Parsonage.= By ELIZABETH SEWELL. (Longmans) 1_s._

The catechism illustrated practically by three periods of the lives of
a clergyman’s daughters—at home, at school, and after the return from
school.

=181. Sweet William.= By Mrs. ERSKINE. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

An engaging little girl, devoted to her butterfly-hunting brothers, but
waking to high and deep aspirations, which find their first fulfilment in
the discovery of an old cottage woman’s lost son.

=182. Grumble.= By Mrs. ERSKINE. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

The pinch of agricultural depression felt but not understood in the
nursery drives a little damsel to try to mend matters by _wishing_ in a
fairy ring.

=183. The Birthday.= By Lady HARRIET HOWARD. (Masters) 3_s._ 6_d._

A charming set of children in high life, simple, natural, and wholesome,
a favourite of many years’ standing.

=184. The White Gipsy.= By ANNETTE LYSTER. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._

A child picked up by gipsies after a railway accident, and bred up among
them till recovered by his mother.

=185. Decima’s Promise.= By AGNES GIBERNE. (Nisbet) 3_s._ 6_d._

This is made to a servant girl not to reveal an accident to a young child
of which both alike are guilty. It results in the poor child’s idiocy,
and thus would be a wholesome warning to nurses, but Decima’s other
troubles are rather out of their beat.

=186. In the Marsh.= By BESSIE CURTEIS. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

A very clever portrait of life on the Sussex coast, as seen by some young
folks quartered in a farmhouse.

=187. Rosamond Ferrars.= By M. BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

A girl hardened by want of home life introduced into a good and happy
home where the key of life is given to her.

=188. The Little Brown Girl.= By ESMÉ STUART. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

An orphan unkindly treated by children who are prejudiced against her,
and nearly frighten her to death.

=189. The Runaway.= (Macmillan) 2_s._ 6_d._

Exceedingly droll mishaps befall the little maid who hides the runaway
from school in her cupboard.

=190. When I was a Little Girl.= (Macmillan) 2_s._ 6_d._

=191. Nine Years Old.= (Macmillan) 2_s._ 6_d._

Great favourites with children; without much plot, but flowing on
naturally.

=192. Little Alice and her Sister.= (Masters) 2_s._

A charmingly told cure of a spoilt and passionate little girl caused by
an elder sister returned from India.

=193. P’s and Q’s.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

Turns on the difficulty of submitting to a fresh government.

=194. Henrietta’s Wish.= By C. M. YONGE. (Masters) 4_s._ 6_d._

On vehemently carrying out a personal wish.

=195. The Two Guardians.= By C. M. YONGE. (Masters) 6_s._

A religiously brought-up girl transplanted into a worldly family.

=196. The Wynnes.= (Masters) 5_s._

A sensible, thoughtful picture of the trials of a large family.

=197. One of a Covey.= (Wells Gardner, Darton & Co.) 3_s._ 6_d._

A little girl taken away from a home full of brothers and sisters to find
solitary luxury very wearisome.

=198. Regent Rosalind.= (S. Tinsley) 7_s._ 6_d._

The difficulties of a young girl brought home from school to become head
of a motherless household.

=199. Phil’s Mother.= (S. Tinsley) 5_s._

Several short and good stories, of which ‘Georgie’s Christmas Holidays’
is the best.

=200. Elly’s Choice.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

=201. Boys and Girls.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

The best thing in these is a remarkable fable or allegory, quite fit to
be read separately, where each person is represented as chained for life
to some animal symbolising character, and the question in each case is,
Will the animal subdue the human being to the ruin of both, or will the
human creature make the animal his obedient servant to the salvation of
both?

=202. Ella’s Mistake.= By LAURA LANE. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

The damsel takes to sensational religion and despises her mother, but
learns her error.

=203. Courage and Cowards.= By SELINA GAYE. (Nisbet) 2_s._ 6_d._

The contrast between physical daring and moral courage well brought out.

=204. The Autocrat of the Nursery.= By L. T. MEADE. (Hodder) 5_s._

This is delightfully illustrated and is a charming story, but it has the
fault—a serious one if reverence is desired—of giving holy Names misspelt
for baby utterance. A touch of the pen will alter this.

=205. Countess Kate and the Stokesley Secret.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter
Smith) 5_s._

One is a plunge into high life and the other a merry scrambling family.

=206. The Six Cushions.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._

The varying fates of six cushions for the chancel step, dealt out to be
worked by as many young ladies.

=207. Trixy; or, Those who Live in Glass Houses should not Throw Stones.=
By MARGERY SYMINGTON. (Cassell) 1_s._ 6_d._

Pleasant scenes of life in a small Swiss young ladies’ school.

=208. Studies for Stories.= By JEAN INGELOW. (Wells Gardner, Darton, &
Co.) 3_s._ 6_d._

A collection of really powerful short tales, not half sufficiently known,
chiefly of girls’ school life.

=209. The Old House in the Square.= By ALICE WEBER. (Routledge) 3_s._
6_d._

A well-drawn family, who are too exclusive to be hospitable to their
father’s pupil, and need to be brought to a better mind.

=210. North Wind and Sunshine.= By ANNETTE LYSTER. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

The contrast between piety and charity at home, and anywhere except at
home.

=211. Five Pounds Reward.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

Very droll.

=212. Heart Service.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

Useful warning against selfish neglect.

=213. Snowball Society.= By M. BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

=214. Home and School.= By M. BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

These tell of the same family—the first of a scheme for providing poor
children with a playground; the second is of high school adventures.

=215. Lob Lie by the Fire.= By J. H. EWING. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

=216. Story of a Short Life.= By J. H. EWING. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

=217. Jan of the Mill.= By J. H. EWING. (Bell) 1_s._

=218. Daddy Darwin’s Dovecote.= By J. H. EWING. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

These exquisite pieces of Mrs. Ewing’s are too delicately worked for the
ordinary style of children or the poor, though they may be appreciated by
those who have time to dream over them and, as it were, imbibe them.

=219. Story of a Happy Home.= By MARY HOWITT. (Nelson) 2_s._

Real childish incidents of a year; hardly story, but told with the charm
of Mrs. Howitt.

=220. Sue and I.= By Mrs. O’REILLY. (Wells Gardner, Darton, & Co.) 3_s._
6_d._

Delightful reminiscences of childhood.

=221. Aunt Judy’s Tales.= By Mrs. GATTY. (Bell) 3_s._ 6_d._

=222. Aunt Judy’s Letters.= By Mrs. GATTY. (Bell) 3_s._ 6_d._

=223. Aunt Sally’s History.= By Mrs. GATTY. (Bell) 2_s._ 6_d._

Needing no words of recommendation.

=224. Castle Blair.= By FLORA SHAW. (Kegan Paul) 3_s._ 6_d._

A wild Irish story, very attractive and exciting.

    =225.= EDGEWORTH’S =Early Lessons=.
                ”      =Frank=.
                ”      =Rosamond=.
                ”      =Parent’s Assistant=.
                ”      =Harry and Lucy=.

These are real classics, and ought to be well read by every child. There
are many points of good sense, refinement, and honour better given in
them than in most modern books. They have been so often republished that
they may be had at almost any price.

=226. Tip Cat.= (Smith) 3_s._ 6_d._

Has much grace and tenderness.

=227. May Cunningham’s Trial.= (Cassell) 2_s._

Interesting and spirited.

=228. Pat.= By STELLA AUSTIN. (Masters) 3_s._ 6_d._

By far the best of Stella Austin’s stories, which are popular, but have
for the most part the fault of admiring the children’s simplicity too
palpably, and might foster affectation or self-consciousness.

=229. Sidney Grey.= By ANNIE KEARY. (Warne) 3_s._ 6_d._

A story of much excellence and reality.

=230. The School-boy Baronet.= By the Hon. Mrs. GREENE. (Warne) 3_s._
6_d._

A young tyrant cured of his overbearing ways by seeing their exaggeration
in lower life.

=231. Cushions and Corners.= By the Hon. Mrs. GREENE. (Warne) 2_s._ 6_d._

A clever story on angular and gentle tempers.

=232. Blind Man’s Holiday.= By ANNIE KEARY. (Warne) 2_s._

=233. Father Phim.= By ANNIE KEARY. (Warne) 1_s._

In the first we have touches from the author’s own childhood. The second
is very beautiful, and perhaps the most perfect of the author’s works.

=234. New Honours.= By Mrs. SELBY LOWNDES. (Warne) 2_s._

Children whose first experiences of their father’s peerage are not
pleasant.

=235. Mistress Mary.= By Mrs. SITWELL. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

A charming story of a quaint little girl and her noble-minded parents.

=236. Dora and Nora.= By ANNETTE LYSTER. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

Two girls who endure in a very different manner the trial of living with
a cross old aunt.

=237. Carry’s Rose.= By Mrs. CUPPLES. (Nelson) 9_d._

Against teasing.

=238. The Launch of the ‘Victory.’= (Nelson) 6_d._

Of a wholesome friendship made over a toy ship.

=239. The Phantom Picture.= By the Hon. Mrs. GREENE. (Nelson) 2_s._

Disobedience detected by the culprit unconsciously photographing himself.

=240. Silverthorns.= By Mrs. MOLESWORTH. (Hatchard) 6_s._

A harsh judgment and incipient jealousy confuted. Very sweet characters.

=241. The Linen Room Window.= By C. BIRLEY. (Wells Gardner, Darton, &
Co.) 1_s._ 6_d._

The effect of sunshine through a convex bit of glass.

=242. A Story for the Schoolroom.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

Excitement at going to stay with a girl of higher rank ending in
wholesome discipline and mortification of self-importance.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




ON THE CATECHISM.


    These are not studies on the Catechism, but illustrations.

=243. Stories and Lessons on the Catechism.= (Walter Smith) 3 vols. 13_s._

A companion to the lessons on the Collects, with a class of girls instead
of boys. The using of it for many years has tested its excellence.

=244. Stories on the Catechism.= By C. A. JONES. (Masters) 4 vols. 2_s._
6_d._ each.

Detached stories, with questions at the end of each on the portion to
which it applies.

=245. Laneton Parsonage.= (See No. 180.)

Written mainly to illustrate the Catechism.

=246. Tales illustrative of the Apostles’ Creed.= By J. M. NEALE.
(Masters) 2_s._ 6_d._

=247. Stories on the Commandments.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

=248. Stories on my Duty to God.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

=249. Stories on my Duty to my Neighbour.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

=250. Stories on the Lord’s Prayer.= By E. SEWELL. (Masters) 6_d._

All the above may be usefully read, or lent, to children, one by one, as
comments on the lesson freshly taught.

=251. The Little Camp on Eagle Hill.= By E. WETHERELL. (Warne) 1_s._ 6_d._

Somewhat striking conversations upon the Lord’s Prayer.

=252. Children of the Church.= Part 1. By Mrs. O’REILLY. (Wells Gardner,
Darton & Co.) 1_s._ 6_d._

=253. Teachings for the Little Ones on the Catechism.= By C. M. YONGE.
(Walter Smith) 2_s._ 6_d._

These last are more of Sunday-school books than intended to be lent,
but as most of the instruction to _very_ little ones must be conveyed
either by reading or speaking to them, it has been thought that the
recommendation of these might be an assistance to teachers preparing
lessons.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




ON CONFIRMATION.


=254. Harry and Archie.= By the Rev. E. MONRO. (Masters) 1_s._

The first is the most effective of all such books. Its excellence
has been proved. To our own knowledge it has brought a servant to
Confirmation and a lad to Holy Communion.

=255. Clary’s Confirmation.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

A great favourite.

=256. The Castle Builders.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._ 6_d._

Confirmation difficulties in a higher rank of life.

=257. Jeanie Gordon.= (Walter Smith) 1_s._

The Confirmation of an invalid girl in Scotland.

=258. Ruthieston.= (Walter Smith) 5_s._

A story of Scottish middle life, but the Confirmation subject is brought
in and dealt with usefully.

=259. Laneton Parsonage.= (See No. 180.)

The second volume bears on Confirmation usefully.

=260. Maggie Preece.= (S.P.C.K.) 4_d._

A fairly good Confirmation story.

=261. Boys.= (Skeffington) 9_d._

=262. Girls.= (Skeffington) 9_d._

Practical advice in short compass; excellent for Confirmation gifts.

=263. The Seal.= By C. M. YONGE. (Smith) 1½_d._

A Confirmation tract.




[Illustration]




ON THE PRAYER-BOOK.


=264. Church Echoes.= By Mrs. CAREY BROCK. (Seeley) 15_s._

A tale with conversations woven into it to bring out the meaning and
blessing of the Church services, going as far as the Litany.

=265. Sunday Echoes in Week-day Hours.= By Mrs. CAREY BROCK. (Seeley) A
series. 5_s._ each.

There is one volume on the Collects, and another on the Epistles and
Gospels.

=266. Stories and Lessons on the Collects.= (Walter Smith) 12_s._ 6_d._

The lessons are given by a lady to a class of boys, each of whom has his
own history and character, and, besides pursuing this, stories are told
and read to them. It is a very useful book for teaching from, making the
class in hand answer the questions and look out the references (of which
there is a very large choice); and the stories, which are not quite equal
to the teachings, can be read or not according to time and expediency.

=267. Stories on the Christian Year.= By C. A. JONES. (Masters) 8 vols.
2_s._ each.

Stories illustrating the Collects, with questions at the end. Rather
unequal.

=268. Richard Nelson.= By the Revs. J. and T. KEBLE. (Walter Smith) 1_s._
6_d._

The conversations on Church matters formed several of the earliest
‘Tracts for the Times,’ and have both the simplicity and the power of all
the teachings of the author of the ‘Christian Year.’

=269. Charles Harvey’s Difficulties.= (Hayes) 6_d._

A valuable explanation of the Athanasian Creed; exactly the thing to
correct popular mistakes.

=270. Benedicite.= By CHILD CHAPLIN. (Murray) 6_s._

A favourite book, going into details on all the glorious works of
creation mentioned in the Canticle.

=271. History of the Prayer-Book.= By F. M. P. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

A sketch of the growth of the Prayer-Book.

=272. Studies on the Benedicite.= By Mrs. BAYNE. (Hatchards) 6_s._

Somewhat in the same style as No. 270, also excellent, with more
historical association and less natural history.

=273. Our Mother Church.= By Mrs. JEROME MERCIER. 3_s._ 6_d._

Conversations on Church subjects and the history of the Liturgy, best
adapted to young ladies and girl pupil-teachers. Very useful.

=274. Children of the Church.= By Mrs. O’REILLY. (Wells Gardner, Darton,
& Co.) Part II. 1_s._ 6_d._ (See No. 252.)

Very easy lessons for young children on the Collects.

=275. Only a Tramp.= By GRACE STEBBING. (Shaw) 6_d._ and 3_s._ 6_d._

There are some mistakes in this, but they may be overlooked for the sake
of the practical illustrations of the Litany.

=276. Stories and Teaching on the Litany.= By Dr. W. HARDMAN.
(Skeffington) 5_s._

Short chapters of comment on the Litany, containing telling anecdotes
illustrating each clause; especially useful for those who have to _get_
up a lesson before giving it.

=277. Number One, Brighton Street.= By C. MACSORLEY. (S.P.C.K.) 6_d._

A story showing the comfort of intercessory prayer.

=278. Prayer-Book Packet.= (S.P.C.K.) Six books. 1_s._

Short tales illustrating the services.

=279. Chapters on the Te Deum.= (Masters) 2_s._

=280. Letters from an Unknown Friend.= (Kegan Paul) 1_s._

More about the Church than the Prayer-Book, but very useful as showing
why Dissent is an evil.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




BOOKS BEARING ON HOLY SCRIPTURE.


    These are needed for various classes of readers. The
    highest and best are those who need to study the Scriptures
    devotionally. Works for these hardly come within the scope
    of a parish library—nor do the Commentaries, such as the
    Speaker’s or the Cottage Commentary of the S.P.C.K., although
    in an ideal school these ought always to be accessible by the
    teachers. What is here to be provided is a set of books that
    will illustrate the intellectual side of the Bible, and may in
    the first place instruct the teachers, and in the next make it
    plain to the young minds that there is infinite interest in
    the study of Holy Scripture even after they have left school,
    a fact which they are too slow to believe. Conversations
    can be read with drawing-room classes or Bible classes with
    advantage, leaving the pupils to look out references and
    make observations. There are innumerable varieties of Bible
    stories, but there is no use in mentioning these. It is much
    better to teach the narrative of the Patriarchs direct from
    the Book itself, reading it to the children till they can read
    with perfect ease, and then reading _with_ them. Later, Dr.
    Maclear’s two ‘Class Books of the Old and New Testaments,’
    4_s._ 6_d._ and 5_s._ 6_d._ (Macmillan), are useful in
    disentangling the narrative and explaining the chronology;
    and for those who find a difficulty in selecting passages,
    and passing over those chapters, verses, or phrases to which
    it is not well to direct children’s attention, C. M. Yonge’s
    ‘Scripture Readings’ (Macmillan) may be an assistance, as they
    are chronologically arranged, and harmonised with portions
    of the Prophetical writings. Five series, 1_s._ 6_d._ each,
    without comment; 4_s._ 6_d._ with comment.

    The books that follow begin with the easiest, and fittest to
    lend to a thoughtful child, especially to a little invalid.

=281. Parables of Our Lord.= By the late Earl of DERBY. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._
6_d._

These are conversations on the Parables in rather set language, but with
good applications.

=282. Walks from Eden.= By SUSAN and ANNA WARNER. (Nisbet) 2_s._ 6_d._

=283. The House of Israel.= By SUSAN and ANNA WARNER. (Nisbet) 2_s._ 6_d._

=284. The Kingdom of Judah.= By SUSAN and ANNA WARNER. (Nisbet) 2_s._
6_d._

=285. The Broken Walls.= By SUSAN and ANNA WARNER. (Nisbet) 2_s._ 6_d._

=286. The Star out of Jacob.= By SUSAN and ANNA WARNER. (Nisbet) 2_s._
6_d._

These American books are admirable in their way, bringing in
Eastern research, historical inquiry, and lights from science in a
conversational, but always reverent manner. They do not go into the types
or spiritual lessons, but are thoroughly sound and excellent for reading
with fairly intelligent young people. I used ‘The Kingdom of Judah’ with
great success with a pupil-teacher.

=287. The Chosen People.= By C. M. YONGE. (W. Smith) 1_s._

This is more of a lesson book, being a compendium of sacred and Church
history.

=288. The Prophet Daniel Explained.= By Prof. GAUSSEN (W. Smith) 5_s._

A translation of very easy lectures on Daniel, given by the celebrated
Professor Gaussen to a class of children at Geneva.

    For students beyond childhood:—

=289. The World’s Birthday.= By Prof. GAUSSEN. (Nelson) 2_s._ 6_d._

Science consulted in dealing with the first chapter of Genesis. Useful
in preparing lessons or in argument to those who stumble at the Mosaic
record.

=290. The Nations Around.= By ANNIE KEARY. (Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

Beginning from Ur of the Chaldees, and going through the contemporary
Egyptian history, then the Phœnician, and on to the Babylonian and
Assyrian.

=291. The Tabernacle: its Priests and Services.= By BROWN. (Oliphant,
Edinburgh) 2_s._ 6_d._

An excellent explanation of the ritual in the wilderness.

=292. The Child Samuel.= By Dean GOULBURN. (Rivingtons) 5_s._

Lessons from the youth of Samuel adapted to choir boys.

=293. David’s Life as seen in the Psalms.= (Hodder) 3_s._ 6_d._

A worthy and very interesting book.

=294. The History of the Kingdom of Judah.= By F. M. WILBRAHAM. (Masters)
1_s._ 6_d._

This is one of the best books to explain the contemporary royal lines of
Judah and Israel.

=295. The World before the Flood, etc.= By Dr. EDERSHEIM. (R.T.S.) 2_s._
6_d._

=296. The Exodus and Wanderings in the Wilderness.= By Dr. EDERSHEIM.
(R.T.S.) 2_s._ 6_d._

=297. Israel under Joshua and the Judges.= By Dr. EDERSHEIM. (R.T.S.)
2_s._ 6_d._

=298. Israel under Samuel, Saul, and David.= By Dr. EDERSHEIM. (R.T.S.)
2_s._ 6_d._

=299. Israel and Judah from Solomon to Ahab.= By Dr. EDERSHEIM. (R.T.S.)
2_s._ 6_d._

=300. Israel and Judah from Ahab to the Decline of the two Kingdoms.= By
Dr. EDERSHEIM. (R.T.S.) 2_s._ 6_d._

=301. Israel and Judah from Joash to Zedekiah.= By Dr. EDERSHEIM.
(R.T.S.) 3_s._

The set of seven volumes can be had bound in four, price 16_s._

=302. Sketches of Jewish Life.= By Dr. EDERSHEIM. (R.T.S.) 5_s._

=303. The Temple, its Ministry and Services.= By Dr. EDERSHEIM. (R.T.S.)
5_s._

Very valuable for comprehension of the narrative.

=304. Elisha the Prophet.= By Dr. EDERSHEIM. (R.T.S.) 2_s._ 6_d._

=305. Heroes of Hebrew History.= By Bishop SAMUEL WILBERFORCE. (Strahan)
5_s._

Eloquent and stirring pictures of the lives of the great men of Israel,
especially Elijah and Elisha.

=306. Simple Readings on the Minor Prophets.= By M. C. HYETT. (Masters)
3_s._

Useful to read with the Prophets.

=307. Judæa and her Rulers.= By M. BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

=308. Wars of the Jews.= By A.L.O.E. (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

Jewish history from the return from the captivity.

=309. Daniel—Statesman and Prophet.= By the Rev. H. T. ROBJOHNS. (R.T.S.)
3_s._ 6_d._

A bridge over the gulf between Nehemiah and St. Matthew.

=310. Judas Maccabæus.= By Capt. C. R. CONDER, R.E. (Marcus Ward) 2_s._
6_d._

A brilliant, soldierly description of that great man and of the scenes of
his exploits.

=311. Eldad the Pilgrim.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

In the form of a tale, showing the condition of Judæa under Hyrcanus.

=312. Ephrem and Helah.= (Hodder) 5_s._

A not ill executed tale of Israel in Egypt. The description of the water
turned into blood is particularly effective.

=313. The Gospel Story.= (Hodges) 6_s._

The best harmonising narrative for popular use.

=314. The Gospel of the Childhood.= By Dean GOULBURN. (Rivingtons) 5_s._

=315. The Acts of the Deacons.= By Dean GOULBURN. (Rivingtons) 5_s._

So excellent that it is much to be wished they were cheaper.

=316. St. Paul.= By CONYBEARE and HOWSON. Abridged. (Longmans) 7_s._ 6_d._

=317. The Fall of Jerusalem.= (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

Well told and illustrated.

=318. The Story of Salvation.= By Mrs. J. MERCIER. (Rivingtons)

Admirable in many respects, though not perfect. It is well calculated to
teach how Holy Scripture may be studied.

    Nothing has been said here of the Psalms. Books on them are
    rather devotional reading than fit for libraries. The most
    compendious in giving information is an American book,

=319. The Treasury of the Psalms.= Compiled by the Rev. G. HUNTINGTON and
the Rev. H. METCALF. (Wells Gardner, Darton, & Co.) 7_s._ 6_d._

It ought to be widely known.

    Next best for the purpose is:—

=320. A Plain Commentary on the Psalms.= (Parker) 2 vols. 10_s._ 6_d._

=321. Eastern Manners and Customs.= (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

Useful for teachers to consult when preparing a lesson.


_MODERN RESEARCH INTO MONUMENTS._

    Here only the small popular books are mentioned. The great
    original authorities are too large and too expensive.

=322. Assyria.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

=323. Babylonia.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

=324. Egypt.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

=325. Greek Cities.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

=326. Persia.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

=327. Sinai.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

Full of most useful information, but for somewhat advanced students.

=328. Mount Sinai and Petra.= (Nelson) 2_s._

=329. Nineveh and its History.= 1_s._ 6_d._

Both of these speak to the eye by good illustrations.

=330. Babylonian Life and History.= By E. A. W. BUDGE, M.A. (R.T.S.) 3_s._

=331. Recent Discoveries on the Temple Hill.= By the Rev. J. KING, M.A.
(R.T.S.) 2_s._ 6_d._

Lively and easy narrations of the experiences of a residence in Jerusalem
at the time of the chief discoveries, and easier than those above
mentioned.

=332. A Year in Palestine.= By Mrs. FINN. (Nisbet)

=333. A Second Year in Palestine.= By Mrs. FINN. (Nisbet)

=334. Jerusalem and its Environs.= (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

Language rather difficult, but numerous excellent illustrations.




[Illustration]




ALLEGORIES AND ALLEGORICAL TALES.


    Too many allegories are not desirable, nor should they even
    be pressed upon those who do not accept them readily. To the
    imaginative, who are perhaps two-thirds of the people we deal
    with, they are an excellent and persuasive mode of teaching
    and influencing. The remaining third at first take them for
    fact, as people did in mediæval times by the stories of St.
    Christopher or St. Margaret, and when the delusion is dispelled
    feel resentment, as if deceived; or else they look on the
    allegory either as a tale meant to cheat them into being
    instructed or as an irreverent riddle. Any way, when forced on
    them, it gives a sense of unreality which is, above all, what
    they dislike, and which may damage even their feeling for the
    truths thus represented.

    Too many allegories, even for the most receptive readers, are
    undesirable, and among those here mentioned, it may be wiser to
    make a choice.

=335. The Pilgrim’s Progress.= By JOHN BUNYAN. (Macmillan) 4_s._ (Nelson)
1_s._, 2_s._, and 5_s._ (R.T.S.) 1_s._, 1_s._ 6_d._, 2_s._ 6_d._ (Nisbet)
1_s._, 1_s._ 6_d._, 2_s._, 2_s._ 6_d._, 3_s._ 6_d._

In spite of all its peculiarities, the king of allegories must be
admitted. It is not likely that Bunyan’s doctrines will do any harm,
though for these purposes we do regret that Dr. Neale’s edition, arranged
for Church people, is out of print.

=336. Agathos.= By Bishop SAMUEL WILBERFORCE. (Seeley) 6_d._, 1_s._, and
2_s._ 6_d._

=337. The Rocky Island.= By Bishop SAMUEL WILBERFORCE. (Seeley) 6_d._,
1_s._, and 2_s._ 6_d._

‘Agathos’ itself ought to be read to every child at the right age either
on Advent Sunday or the Twenty-first Sunday after Trinity, the other
parables in like manner.

=338. The Shadow of the Cross.= By the Rev. W. ADAMS. (Rivingtons) 1_s._

=339. The Distant Hills, and The King’s Messengers.= By the Rev. W.
ADAMS. (Rivingtons) 1_s._ each.

=340. The Old Man’s Home.= By the Rev. W. ADAMS. (Rivingtons)

Separately 1_s._ each, altogether 5_s._

The third is rather an exquisite dreamy story than an allegory, but the
two first are of the very best and most practical description.

=341. The Dark River.= By the Rev. E. MONRO. (Masters)

=342. The Vast Army.= By the Rev. E. MONRO. (Masters)

=343. The Combatants.= By the Rev. E. MONRO. (Masters)

=344. The Revellers.= By the Rev. E. MONRO. (Masters)

=345. The Journey Home.= By the Rev. E. MONRO. (Masters) Separately 1_s._
each, collected 7_s._ 6_d._

‘The Dark River’ has been known to terrify nervous children. ‘The
Combatants’ and ‘The Vast Army’ are very inspiriting and practical.

=346. The Story of the Red Cross Knight.= (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

Spenser’s allegory told in conversations between an aunt and some
children.

=347. The Giants, and how to fight them.= (Nelson) 1_s._

Forms of evil, and lively practical lessons on how to meet them.

=348. Truth in Tale.= By Bishop BOYD CARPENTER. (Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

Half allegories, half stories, some of them, such as the ‘White Flower,’
very beautiful. Excellently suited for short grave readings.

=349. The Gate of Paradise.= By EDITH S. JACOB. (Rivingtons) 6_d._ and
1_s._

=350. The Vision of the Holy Child.= By EDITH S. JACOB. (Rivingtons)
1_s._ 6_d._

Very beautiful and touching dreams. The first is either appropriate for
Easter Eve or to a house of recent bereavement; the second is a Christmas
vision.

=351. Parables from Nature.= By Mrs. GATTY. (S.P.C.K.) Four series, to be
had at 7_s._ 6_d._ in 2 vols. Selections, 2 vols. 1_s._ each.

The Selections might be most useful, as some of the others are too
difficult for the present purpose. No praise is needed for these.
Several, if read with children, are very successful.

=352. Earth’s Many Voices.= (S.P.C.K.) 1st and 2nd Series. 2_s._ each.

In the style of Mrs. Gatty.

=353. The Man on the Top of the Ark.= (Nisbet) 1_s._

The flood, the brazen serpent, and the city of refuge are here drawn out
in their typical meaning. They are very effective. In the first, there
is the serious defect that there is no explanation _how_ to enter the
ark, but to add the text, ‘The like figure whereunto even Baptism, etc.,’
gives the key.

=354. The Golden Thread.= By Dr. NORMAN MCLEOD. (Strahan) 2_s._ 6_d._

A parable of life, so full of spirit and playfulness that children
delight in it for the story alone.

=355. The Lord of the Forest.= By Mrs. ALEXANDER. (Masters) 2_s._ 6_d._

A tale with much allegory hidden within.

=356. The Beautiful Face.= By Mrs. MITCHELL. (Masters) 4_s._ 6_d._

A child’s romance with a hidden meaning so interesting that ‘Oh, that
_is_ pretty!’ the schoolchild’s highest praise, is admiringly whispered
when it is read.

=357. Coming.= By SELINA GAYE. (Seeley) 5_s._

A very beautiful semi-allegory, with Swiss surroundings. Somewhat long,
but of a very poetical and lofty tone, suited to readers of a more
cultivated taste.

=358. Sintram and his Companions.= By LA MOTTE FOUQUÉ.

This most striking of allegorical tales cannot be omitted, when it is
on record that it made such an impression on Charles Lowder’s boys that
they actually named places in Ratcliffe Highway and London Docks from
‘The Castle of the Moon,’ ‘Rocks,’ &c. There was a small cheap edition
published by Burns, the poems exquisitely translated. Hare’s translation,
less good, has been published, illustrated by Mr. H. Sumner, by Seeley.
5_s._

=359. The Child’s Pilgrimage.= By FRANCES CLARE. (Skeffington) 2_s._ 6_d._

Pretty little allegories and semi-allegories for children, tenderly and
gracefully touched, though it is a pity the child’s departed spirit is
called an angel.

=360. A Beleaguered City.= By Mrs. OLIPHANT. (Macmillan) 6_s._ There
is something so deep and solemn in this book, founded on ‘Though one
went unto them from the dead they will not repent,’ that it is added to
the list, though it can only be understood by persons of thought and
cultivation.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




HISTORICAL TALES.


    These are of considerable value, not only as serving as
    ‘sugared history’ and conveying facts, but sometimes as
    supplying the element of romance which is almost essential to
    a wholesome development. Moreover, these stories are of great
    assistance in making it evident that the actors in history are
    not mere names with dates attached, to load the memory for an
    examination, but that they have been flesh and blood beings
    like ourselves.

    There has been of late a great attempt to supply these tales,
    with very varied success. Some are so interesting as to be read
    apart from all purpose, for their mere interest. Others present
    nothing but wooden puppets put into the carefully studied
    costume of their period, and stiffly working out the facts,
    with much pains but no life. These, however, have a certain
    value, not only because perverse youth will read them when it
    will not read real history; but also because when a special
    period has to be ‘got up,’ they impress details of manners,
    dress, and habits in a convenient way. We shall therefore
    endeavour to give a chronological list of English, foreign, and
    Church history tales.


_TALES ON EARLY CHURCH HISTORY._

    There are many of these, and it is difficult to choose among
    them. Those are here mentioned which may serve best to
    interest young people in the primitive Church, and give some
    idea of the days of martyrdom.

=361. Triumphs of the Cross, and Deeds of Faith.= By Rev. J. M. NEALE.
(Masters) Two series, each 2_s._

=362. Lent Legends.= By Rev. J. M. NEALE. (Masters) 2_s._

=363. Followers of the Lord.= By Rev. J. M. NEALE. (Masters) 2_s._

Brief tales through the whole range of Church history, some of them quite
unrivalled in effectiveness.

=364. Helena’s Household.= By the author of ‘The Schönberg-Cotta Family.’
(Nelson) 4_s._

This tells of the days of the Catacombs.

=365. Gaudentius.= By the Rev. G. F. DAVIES. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

The builder of the Colosseum, who afterwards became a martyr there.

=366. Lapsed not Lost.= By the Author of ‘The Schönberg-Cotta Family.’
(S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

A failure from weakness in the days of St. Cyprian.

=367. The Egyptian Wanderers.= By Rev. J. M. NEALE. (Masters) 2_s._

Giving with much vividness the trials of the Christians at different
times of persecution.

=368. Narcissus.= By the Bishop of RIPON. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

=369. Conquering and to Conquer.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

The days of St. Jerome and the Gothic invasion of Rome.

=370. Bilihild.= By JULIE SUTTER. (R.T.S.) 1_s._ 6_d._

The conversion of part of Germany.

=371. Mitslav, or the Conversion of Pomerania.= (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

=372. Tales illustrating Church History.= (Parker, Oxford) In seven 3_s._
6_d._ vols., to be had separately.

I regret that these tales are not to be had singly as before, and that
they are arranged by countries, not chronology. The most useful for
illustrations of primitive Church history are those called ‘Asia and
Africa’ and ‘France and Spain,’ containing the four following:—

=373. The Quay of the Dioscuri.=

On the persecution of St. Athanasius.

=374. The Exiles of the Cevenna.=

Persecution in Gaul.

=375. Lucia’s Marriage.=

Christians in Africa.

=376. The Lazar House of Leros.=

The Lepers in an island of the Archipelago.

=377. The Farm of Aptonga.= (Masters) 2_s._

African adventures of Christians.


_TALES ON ENGLISH HISTORY._

    These tales of English History are given in greater numbers and
    with less sifting than the others, because when a particular
    period is proposed for study or examination a story even of no
    great merit may be an assistance. Also some belonging to higher
    literature are enumerated so as to make out a complete list.

=378. The Camp on the Severn.= By Rev. E. CUTTS. (Mowbray) 2_s._

=379. No. XIII. The Lost Vestal.= By EMMA MARSHALL. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

Both these start from St. Alban’s martyrdom. Neither is quite
satisfactory as to correctness, but the second is the more vivid, the
latter part being upon scenes at Rome. The first needs less education to
be understood.

=380. Stories of the Days of King Arthur.= By C. H. HANSON. (Nelson)
3_s._ and 3_s._ 6_d._

Hardly to be called historical, but with the grand outlines of Sir T.
Malory’s great romance and with excellent illustrations by Gustave Doré.
Desirable as giving the genuine English heroic tale, noble in itself, and
furnishing allusions. It is intended to prepare the way for Malory and
Tennyson, and there is thus little said of the Quest of the Holy Grail.

=381. Edwy the Fair.= By Rev. A. D. CRAKE. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

=382. Alfgar the Dane.= By Rev. A. D. CRAKE. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

=383. The Rival Heirs.= By Rev. A. D. CRAKE. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

This and the other ‘Chronicles of Æscendune’ endeavour to dramatise the
days of Anglo-Saxon history. Young people like them very much, but there
is more of adventure and research than of character or life.

=384. The Champion of Odin.= By HODGETTS. (Cassell) 5_s._

A fierce story of wild Northmen invading England. The manners are
well touched, but there is the great error of making Alfred knowingly
re-baptise a Dane who had recurred to his wild life.

=385. Harold.= By Lord LYTTON. (Routledge) 6_d._, 2_s._, and 3_s._ 6_d._

This and other historical novels of high merit are here mentioned to
complete the series, though only for advanced readers.

=386. The Camp of Refuge.= (Leach) 5_s._

The legend of Hereward le Wake, not told with the fire of imagination
which Kingsley has thrown into it.

=387. Hereward, the Last of the English.= By C. KINGSLEY. (Macmillan)
6_s._

But we should prefer the former of the two for younger and simpler
readers.

=388. Lady Sybil’s Choice.= By EMILY S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

Miss Holt’s tales will be enumerated in their order of chronology, but
the following description must be understood to apply to all. Manners and
customs, history and chronicle, are minutely studied; but the mediæval
Church is never understood, and sympathy is uniformly with those who
separated from it. What is especially to be regretted is that there are
often innuendoes and even more direct attacks on present practices and
opinions, which the author thinks a return to what she reprobates.

=389. The Knight’s Ransom.= By Mrs. VALENTINE. (Warne) 2_s._ 6_d_.

Greatly relished by young people. It is founded on the legend of the lady
whose hand was the ransom of her crusading knight.

=390. The Betrothed.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

Belonging to the higher order of literature. Bringing out the state
of things on the Welsh border under Henry II., not accurately but
impressively.

=391. The Talisman.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT. Scott’s novels may be had at
any price from 6_d._ upwards. It is of no use to specify publisher.

The master hand has lighted up the relations between Cœur-de-Lion and
Saladin. There is no need to touch on the inaccuracies where the scene is
made so real.

=392. Ivanhoe.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

The same may be said of this romance of the return of Cœur-de-Lion.

=393. Philip Augustus.= By G. P. R. JAMES. (Warne) 6_d._

Vividly giving the relations of King John with the astute Frenchman.

=394. Earl Hubert’s Daughter.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

The reign of Henry III., with a curious picture of Jewish life in
England.

=395. The Prince and the Page.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

The prince is Edward I., the page a son of Simon de Montfort.

=396. Prentice Hugh.= By F. M. PEARD. (National Society) 3_s._ 6_d._

Burgher and apprentice life under Edward I., chiefly concerned with the
carvings of the corbels in Exeter Cathedral; fit to raise the sense of
responsibility in such work.

=397. The Lord of the Isles.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

The rise of Bruce and battle of Bannockburn had best be illustrated by
this grand tale in poetry.

=398. Castle Dangerous.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

The perilous castle of Douglas.

=399. In All Time of Our Tribulation.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw)

The times of Edward II., whose two favourites are well painted.

=400. Not for Him.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

On the Earl of Lancaster and the Order of Poor Brothers.

=401. The Well in the Desert.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 2_s._ 6_d._

The persecuted daughter of Hugh Le Despenser.

=402. Golden Horse-shoes.= By Mrs. MITCHELL. (Masters) 5_s._

Founded on the golden horse-shoes in the Guildhall at Oakham. Spirited
and interesting to children, though the chivalry is rather fanciful than
real.

=403. The Lances of Lynwood.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

Gives the doings of the Black Prince in Spain and at Bordeaux.

=404. Tales from Chaucer.= (Nelson) 3_s._ and 3_s._ 6_d._

Not exactly historical, but useful to those who have to get up knowledge
of history and English literature.

=405. John de Wycliffe.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 3_s._ 6_d._

The Reformer according to Miss Holt’s view.

=406. The Lord Mayor.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

A sad and veritable tale.

=407. The Lord of the Marches.= By E. S. HOLT. 3_s._ 6_d._

Roger Mortimer, whose untimely death led to the Wars of the Roses.

=408. The Fair Maid of Perth.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

Poor Robert III. of Scotland and the murder of Rothsay.

=409. The Boy Bishop.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan)

A short outline in ‘Byewords,’ No. 574.

=410. The Caged Lion.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

James I. of Scotland and the last days of Henry V.

=411. The White Rose of Langley.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

=412. Mistress Margery.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 3_s._ 6_d._

=413. Red and White.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

=414. Margery’s Son.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

These four give the York and Lancaster times from a Lollard point of view.

=415. A Stormy Life.= By Lady G. FULLERTON. 1_s._ 6_d._

The history of poor Margaret of Anjou, supposed to be written by one of
her ladies, putting her in a favourable point of view.

=416. For and Against.= By F. M. WILBRAHAM. (Parker) 10_s._ 6_d._

A carefully written tale on the Yorkist side.

=417. The Last of the Barons.= By Lord LYTTON. (Warne) 6_d._ (Routledge)
2_s._ and 3_s._ 6_d._

This is real literature and almost worthy to stand beside Scott.

=418. The Earl Printer.= By C. MACSORLEY. (Shaw) 2_s._ 6_d._

A young Lancastrian working as a printer under Caxton. Good.

=419. Malvern Chase.= (Simpkin, Marshall, & Co.) 5_s._

Ranging through that portion of the Wars of the Roses which was connected
with the Severn country, showing much local knowledge and research.

=420. A Tangled Web.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

The fortunes of Perkin Warbeck. Not quite so good as another tale of him
in the ‘Monthly Packet,’ which has never been republished.

=421. The Armourer’s Prentices.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

‘Ill May-day’ and the ‘Field of the Cloth of Gold.’

=422. The Household of Sir Thomas More.= By A. MANNING. (Hall) 2_s._ 6_d._

Supposed to be the diary of Margaret Roper. A charming book.

=423. The Knevets.= By EMILY TAYLOR. (Houlston) 2_s._ 6_d._

Norfolk in early Reformation days. Well and fairly drawn.

=424. Lady of the Lake.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

=425. Marmion.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

Though poems, neither of these should be left out from the course.

=426. The Prince and the Pauper.= By MARK TWAIN. (Chatto & Windus) 7_s._
6_d._

This most diverting book, exchanging Edward VI. for a little street boy,
has one grievous flaw—it marries a man to his sister-in-law, but only in
the last two pages, and with so little preparation that the passage might
be extirpated without anyone missing them.

=427. The Tower of London.= By W. HARRISON AINSWORTH. (Routledge) 1_s._,
2_s._ and 3_s._ 6_d._

This has a great fascination for young people, dealing as it does with
Lady Jane Grey, Edward Courtenay, and the terrible plotter Simon.

=428. Robin Tremayne.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

=429. Isoult Barry.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

=430. For the Master’s Sake.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 2_s._ 6_d._

All three pursuing the fortunes of the same family. On the Marian
persecution in its worst light.

=431. Her Majesty’s Bear.= By Mrs. MITCHELL. (Masters) 5_s._

Very amusing and prettily told adventures at Dover in Queen Elizabeth’s
time, lacking in probability and details of manner, but still a charming
children’s book.

=432. The Good Old Days.= By ESMÉ STUART. (Marcus Ward) 5_s._

Life in Elizabethan times, beautifully illustrated by Mr. H. Stacy Marks.

=433. Kenilworth.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

A noble romance founded on tradition and ballad. Though historic doubts
question the truth of the legend, and Scott has, for the sake of effect,
altered the circumstances, nothing gives so vivid an impression of the
times of Queen Elizabeth.

=434. The Abbot.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

Should be read for the sake of the escape of Queen Mary from Lochleven.

=435. Unknown to History.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

Mary of Scotland in captivity.

=436. Westward Ho!= By CHARLES KINGSLEY. (Macmillan) 6_s._

One of the most powerful historical romances in existence.

=437. Clare Avery.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 5_s._

Also on the Armada, with more hints on Romish perils than are quite
needful.

=438. Lamb’s Tales from Shakespeare.=

These are the best stepping-stones to Shakespeare himself.

=439. The Cruise of the ‘Bonny Kate.’= (Hayes) 3_s._ 6_d._

Telling well of Chancellor’s voyage to Russia.

=440. For Queen and King.= By HENRY FRITH (Cassell) 5_s._

Essex’s rebellion and the Gunpowder Plot. It is rather wooden and devoid
of character, and very hard upon Garnett.

=441. The Fortunes of Nigel.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

A somewhat painful picture of the Court and manners of James I.

=442. Lady Betty’s Governess.= By L. E. GUERNSEY. (Shaw) 5_s._

The story is pretty, but the ideas of the Laudian theology are very
peculiar. Bishop Hall is quite incorrectly represented as at enmity with
Laud.

=443. The Siege of Lichfield.= By Rev. W. GRESLEY. (Masters) 3_s._

One of the earliest of Church tales. A little heavy, perhaps, but full of
interest.

=444. Mary Powell.= By ANNE MANNING. (Hall) 2_s._ 6_d._

The supposed diary of Milton’s first wife. Written with great sweetness
and interest.

=445. Judged by Appearances.= By ELEANOR LLOYD. (London Literary Society)
6_s._

There is much reality, much character, much fairness and clearness of
insight in this very worthy story of the Great Rebellion.

=446. The Legend of Montrose.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

A brilliant fragment of the career of the great Marquess.

=447. Journal of Lady Beatrix Graham.= (Bell) 5_s._

A lovingly written study of the character of Montrose, purporting to be
by his sister. It has great sweetness.

=448. The Draytons and the Davenants.= By the Author of the
‘Schönberg-Cotta Family.’ (Nelson) 3_s._ 6_d._

Conscientious Roundheads and Cavaliers, a little too much inclined to
think everybody in the right.

=449. John Inglesant.= By J. H. SHORTHOUSE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

Too grand and deep a book for the average readers of a parish library,
but one that cannot be omitted here, though it is a very Triton among the
minnows. It is a real study to such as can appreciate it.

=450. The King’s Namesake.= By C. M. PHILLIMORE. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

A child’s tale of the captivity of King Charles.

=451. St. George and St. Michael.= By G. MACDONALD. (Kegan Paul) 4_s._
6_d._

A noble and brilliant sketch of the time of the siege of Raglan Castle,
the devices of Lord Glamorgan and the constancy of the grand old Marquis
of Worcester.

=452. Brave Dame Mary.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

The first siege of Corfe Castle made into a fairly interesting tale.

=453. The Pigeon Pie.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 1_s._

Also a child’s tale of the hiding of fugitive Cavaliers.

=454. Under the Storm, or Steadfast’s Charge.= By C. M. YONGE. (National
Society) 3_s._ 6_d._

A young lad left in charge of the church plate during the Rebellion. An
attempt at realising the condition of the lower classes in those times.

=455. The Two Swords.= By EMMA MARSHALL. (Seeley)

=456. Dorothy’s Venture.= (Nelson) 6_d._

Prettily told of a child begging her uncle’s life of Cromwell, but with
historical blunders. Vane had long broken with Cromwell. Moreover, the
Protector loved practical jokes, and he is here said to have despised
them.

=457. Rosamond Fane.= By M. LEE. (Griffith, Farran, & Co.) 3_s._ 6_d._

The escape of the Duke of York, very well told, so as to be thoroughly
acceptable to children.

=458. The Children of the New Forest.= By Capt. MARRYAT. (Bell) 5_s._
(Routledge) 3_s._ 6_d._

Adventures of the orphans of a Cavalier so related as to be a treasure to
children.

=459. Woodstock.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

One of the most delightful of all Sir Walter’s historical novels.

=460. Scapegrace Dick.= By F. M. PEARD. (National Society) 3_s._ 6_d._

A young runaway who serves under Admiral Blake, and, being taken
prisoner, goes through very interesting experiences among the great Dutch
artists.

=461. The Carved Cartoon.= By AUSTIN CLARE. (S.P.C.K.) 4_s._

Awkwardly named, but exciting much interest even in persons with no
knowledge of history by the vicissitudes of Grinling Gibbons, the carver,
in the Plague and Fire of London.

=462. The Brave Men of Eyam.= By the Rev. E. N. HOARE. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._
6_d._

The plague at Eyam. Authentic records told as a story, but unfortunately
rather dry.

=463.= =Peveril of the Peak= (SCOTT) would complete the roll here, but it
might not be desirable for all readers.

=464. In the Golden Days.= By EDNA LYALL. (Hurst & Blackett) 6_s._

Has a noble hero, but Algernon Sidney is scarcely a desirable subject for
enthusiasm.

=465. Under the Mendips.= By EMMA MARSHALL. (Seeley) 5_s._

Monmouth’s rebellion and its consequences.

=466. The Last of the Cavaliers.= (Bentley) 6_s._

Deservedly reprinted. On the battle of Killiecrankie.

=467. The Oak Staircase.= By M. and C. LEE. (Griffith, Farran, & Co.)
3_s._ 6_d._

The troubles of one of the maids of Taunton related by herself. A great
favourite with children.

=468. The Danvers Papers: and Lady Hester.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan)
6_s._

A Puritan lady and Jacobite husband at the time of the Revolution.

=469. The Maidens’ Lodge.= By E. S. HOLT. (Shaw) 3_s._ 6_d._

A pretty picture of Queen Anne’s time.

=470. The Travels of Two Kits.= By C. M. YONGE. In ‘Byewords.’
(Macmillan) 6_s._ See No. 574.

Two children’s pilgrimage to Queen Anne to be touched for the King’s evil.

=471.= =Rob Roy=, more powerful than pleasant, comes in here.

=472. Dorothy Forster.= By W. BESANT. (Chatto & Windus) 2_s._

A powerful story of the Rebellion of 1715.

=473. Lady Betty.= By C. R. COLERIDGE. (Warne) 3_s._ 6_d._

A very graceful, lady-like tale of early Jacobite times.

=474. Lucy’s Campaign.= By M. LEE. (Griffith, Farran, & Co.) 1_s._ 6_d._

The ’45 as seen by a little girl. A great favourite with those for whom
it is meant, though there are a few anachronisms as to manners.

=475. Waverley.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

The unrivalled presentment of the ’45.

=476. Redgauntlet.= By Sir WALTER SCOTT.

The Jacobite plotters when their cause was worn out.

=477. Diary of Kitty Trevelyan.= By the Author of ‘Chronicles of the
Schönberg-Cotta Family.’ (Nelson) 3_s._ 6_d._

Showing the enthusiasm of Wesleyanism. To be given with due caution.

=478. With Wolfe in Canada.= By G. A. HENTY. (Blackie) 6_s._

Valuable details of the conquest.

=479. A Great Treason.= By M. HOPPUS.

Too long and involved, but showing the state of society in the American
war, especially the desertion of Arnold and the death of André.

=480. Lionel Lincoln.= By FENIMORE COOPER. To be had in cheap form.

The siege of Boston.

=481. Mother Molly.= By F. M. PEARD. (Bell) 5_s._

An admirable alarm of a French invasion at Plymouth. Very life-like.

=482. The Prisoner’s Daughter.= By ESMÉ STUART. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

French prisoners at Winchester.

=483. Clare Saville.= (Warne) 2_s._

The days of the Blanketeers and of the Peninsular war.

=484. How They were Caught in a Trap.= By ESMÉ STUART. (Marcus Ward) 5_s._

English prisoners detained in France by Napoleon I.

=485. Against the Stream.= By the Author of ‘Chronicles of the
Schönberg-Cotta Family.’ (S.P.C.K.) 4_s._

The course of opinion and improvement in England during the reign of
George III.


_TALES FROM GENERAL HISTORY._

    This is a brief list, but only those have been selected which
    have an interest as tales, apart from the history they are
    meant to illustrate.

=486. Two Thousand Years Ago.= By Prof. CHURCH. (Blackie) 6_s._

The adventures of a Roman lad in the days of Cæsar and Cicero.

=487. Good King Wenceslas.= By L. SCHEKKY. (S.P.C.K.) 4_d._

Why this is called a tale of old English life in the S.P.C.K. catalogue
there is no guessing. Wenceslas is the King of Bohemia, well known in the
‘Christmas Carol.’

=488. The Little Duke.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

Richard the Fearless of Normandy.

=489. Brothers in Arms.= (Church Extension Society) 2_s._ 6_d._

The piteous story of the children’s crusade.

=490. The King of a Day.= By F. WILFORD. (Masters) 1_s._

A well-told tale of a little twelfth-day king in the fifteenth century.

=491. The Constant Prince.= By C. R. COLERIDGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._ 6_d._

The noble history of the prisoner Dom Fernando, the Christian Regulus of
Portugal.

=492. The Dove in the Eagle’s Nest.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

German barons under Maximilian.

=493. The Schönberg-Cotta Family.= (Nelson) 5_s._

The early days of Luther.

=494. In the Olden Time.= By the Author of ‘Mlle. Mori.’ (Longmans) 2_s._
6_d._

The days of the peasants’ war in Germany.

=495. Espérance; or, The Siege of Rouen.= By M. BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.)
1_s._ 6_d._

=496. For Faith and Fatherland.= By M. BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

The above two are Reformation tales in France and Holland.

=497. The Chaplet of Pearls.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

The massacre of St. Bartholomew and its consequences.

=498. The Thorn Fortress.= By M. BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

The retreat of some villagers to a hiding-place in the forests during the
Thirty Years’ War, and the doings of a little girl captured by a Croat.
An unusually charming book.

=499. The Little Blue Lady.= By Mrs. MITCHELL. (Masters) 4_s._ 6_d._

A pretty story, though scarcely natural, of the brighter days of Marie
Antoinette.

=500. Seeketh not her Own.= By S. M. SITWELL. (Shaw) 3_s._ 6_d._

The story of the Lagaraye Hospital very well told.

=501. Isabeau’s Hero.= By ESMÉ STUART. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

The revolt of the Cevennes, with the brave deeds of Cavalier.

=502. By Fire and Sword.= (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

A powerful portrait of the Huguenot persecution under Louis XV.

=503. The Blue Ribbons.= By A. H. DRURY. (See No. 80.)

A charming story of Marie Antoinette acting fairy to a little boy.

=504. Through Rough Waters.= By F. M. PEARD. (Bell) 5_s._

The rough waters are those of the first French Revolution.

=505. Max Krömer.= By HESBA STRETTON. (R.T.S.) 1_s._ 6_d._

The siege of Strasburg in the Franco-German war.

=506. Kenneth; or, The Rear Guard of the Grand Army.= By C. M. YONGE.
(Parker) 5_s._

The retreat from Moscow.

=507. The Young Breton Volunteers.= By M. WILBRAHAM. (Masters) 1_s._

A rising of La Vendée against Napoleon in the Hundred Days.

=508. Mademoiselle Mori.= (Longmans) 2_s._ 6_d._

An able and touching picture of the Italian struggles of 1848.

=509. In Time of War.= By J. F. COBB. (Griffith, Farran, & Co.)

The siege of Paris first by Prussians and then by Communists.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




MYTHOLOGY.


    If we wish the young generation to understand more about
    allusions than is conveyed in the foot-notes of their School
    Readers, we must let them have access to a few books containing
    the more remarkable myths. I do not recommend Sir George Cox’s,
    as the reducing them to the supposed Aryan origin of natural
    phenomena mars the pleasure of reading them. The best books are:

=510. The Heroes.= By C. KINGSLEY. (Macmillan) 6_s._

The earlier myths are here told to perfection. The only pity is that
there are not more of them.

=511. Tanglewood Tales: and the Wonder Book.= By N. HAWTHORNE.
(Routledge) 2 vols. 2_s._ each, or 1 vol. 3_s._ 6_d._

Several of these are on the same subjects as those of Kingsley, but told
with less deference to the original outline. Prometheus and Midas are
specially memorable for the _point_ given them. I have seen Midas delight
clever village children and utterly perplex dull ones.

=512. Stories from Heathen Mythology.= By Rev. J. M. NEALE. (Masters)
2_s._

Simply and charmingly told.

=513. Greek Hero Stories.= By NIEBUHR. (Shaw) 2_s._ 6_d._

These are translated from the German in which Niebuhr told them to his
little son.

=514. The Heroes of Asgard.= By A. and E. KEARY. (Macmillan) 2_s._ 6_d._

To add the myths of our own ancestors to those of Greece, we have here
the stories of Odin and Thor beautifully told.

    _Professor Church’s series, published by Seeley, should be in
    school libraries of a higher class, but they are too numerous
    and too expensive for the ordinary parish library._

=515. Cruise of Ulysses and his Men.= (Griffith, Farran, & Co.) 2_s._
6_d._

=516. Old Greek Stories.= By CHARLES HENRY HANSON. (Nelson) 3_s._ and
3_s._ 6_d._

=517. Wanderings of Æneas.= By CHARLES HENRY HANSON. (Nelson) 3_s._ and
3_s._ 6_d._

Narratives well told and illustrated. In the ‘Æneid’ it is often almost
translation. Outline illustrations in Flaxman’s style, often from the
antique, very small, but as nude figures occur, they must be shown with
caution. Excellent prizes for boys aiming at cultivation of mind.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




NOVELETTES AND NOVELS.


    For want of a better title, we give this to tales fit for the
    growing maidens who are beyond the child story, and, above all,
    need to have their ideal of love and courtship elevated and
    refined. A few actual novels are added, in case it is thought
    desirable to put them into a library where the readers are of a
    somewhat superior class, as where there are the older girls and
    young women who will read what is mischievous if the good is
    not supplied.

=518. Christopher.= By HELEN SHIPTON. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

A very beautiful imitation of the legend of St. Christopher carried into
modern life.

=519. The Valley Mill.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

Farm life, where the obstacles in the course of true love are the
cattle plague and a strange robbery of an old miser. The young heiress,
popularly called ‘the little Squire,’ is a charming portrait.

=520. From Over the Water.= (Walter Smith) 6_s._

A Scotch bailiff meeting with strong insular prejudice in the Isle of
Wight.

=521. Rufus.= (Masters) 4_s._ 6_d._

This is by the same author and in the same locality, but the hero in
this case is a native fisherman, the heroine a somewhat spoilt Scottish
lassie, sister to the gardener and the pet of the young ladies.

=522. The Lutaniste of St. Jacobi’s.= By C. DREW. (Marcus Ward) 6_s._

A German tale of music and lace-making, with an excellent moral against
scamped work.

=523. Bride Picotée.= By the Author of ‘Mlle. Mori.’ (Bemrose) 3_s._ 6_d._

Also a lace-making story, concerned with a young French girl and an
almost forgotten art.

=524. Cairnforth and Sons.= By HELEN SHIPTON. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._

Of master manufacturers. A high-minded tale.

=525. Griffinhoof.= By CRONA TEMPLE. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

This is the odd name of an old sailor on board a hulk who adopts a little
orphan. There is a small novel of higher life connected with it, very
prettily carried out.

=526. A Leal Light Heart.= By ANNETTE LYSTER. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

A charming character. The only fault we have to find is the worldliness
of the old lady.

=527. My Lonely Lassie.= By ANNETTE LYSTER. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

The governess is a very pretty character. We could dispense with her
becoming a marchioness in her own right, but no doubt it renders her the
greater favourite.

=528. A Stedfast Woman.= By M. BRAMSTON. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._

A high-toned tale of constancy.

=529. Two Ways of Looking at it.= By AUSTIN CLARE. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

The narratives of a trained schoolmistress and a Yorkshire collier
sandwiched together.

=530. Like his own Daughter.= (Walter Smith) 6_s._

Middle-class life in Scotland.

=531. Lucy and Christian Wainwright.= (Masters) 3_s._ 6_d._

There are some really beautiful tales in this collection, especially the
one on the suspense of the sister of an Arctic voyager.

=532. The Carbridges.= By M. BRAMSTON. (Warne) 3_s._ 6_d._

A good and wholesome family history.

=533. Guide, Philosopher, and Friend.= By Mrs. H. MARTIN. (Griffith,
Farran, & Co.) 3_s._ 6_d._

A young lady becomes companion and adviser to some highly worthy farmers
who have been encumbered with a huge fortune. It is well and sensibly
carried out.

=534. Her Title of Honour.= By HOLME LEE. (Griffith, Farran, & Co.) 3_s._
6_d._

Founded on the history of Henry Martyn and the Lydia who disappointed
him.

=535. Mine Own People.= By L. M. GRAY. (Nelson) 5_s._

A girl, brought up as a companion to a nobleman’s daughter, who is
returned to her own quiet family. (They are Scotch Presbyterians.) The
lessons are excellent.

=536. Hanbury Mills.= By C. R. COLERIDGE. (Warne) 2_s._

=537. The Heir of Redclyffe.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

=538. Heartsease.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

=539. The Daisy Chain.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

=540. The Trial.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

=541. Pillars of the House.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 2 vols. 6_s._
each.

=542. The Young Stepmother.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

=543. Magnum Bonum.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

These are what I have found suit best in the parish library.

=544. The Earl’s Daughter.= By E. M. SEWELL. (Longmans) 1_s._

=545. Katharine Ashton.= By E. M. SEWELL. (Longmans) 1_s._

=546. Ursula.= By E. M. SEWELL. (Longmans) 1_s._

=547. The Experience of Life.= By E. M. SEWELL. (Longmans) 1_s._

=548. Gertrude, &c.= By E. M. SEWELL. (Longmans) 1_s._

These need no praise or recommendation, being well known as always sound
and useful.

=549. A Noble Life.= By the Author of ‘John Halifax.’ (Hurst & Blackett)
5_s._

The history of a deformed nobleman, which gives great delight and has a
most excellent moral of patience and exertion.

=550. Keeping the Vow.= (Walter Smith) 5_s._

A young Scotsman resolved to build a refuge for orphans. Founded on fact.

=551. Mary Barton.= By Mrs. GASKELL. (Smith, Elder) 2_s._ 6_d._

An unrivalled tale of joys and sorrows in Manchester forty years ago.
Full of beauty and full of pathos; never to be forgotten.

=552. The Moorland Cottage.= By Mrs. GASKELL. (Chapman & Hall) 2_s._ 6_d._

Also a very charming story in a different style.

=553. Janet’s Home.= By ANNIE KEARY. (Macmillan) 6_s._

A delightful quiet novel of domestic life.

=554. Oldbury.= By ANNIE KEARY. (Macmillan) 6_s._

A still more attractive and uncommon story.

=555. One Year.= By FRANCES M. PEARD. (Warne) 2_s._ and 3_s._ 6_d._

Experiences of a French girl in England.

=556. A Near Relation.= By C. R. COLERIDGE. (White)

Difficulties of identity acting on character.

=557. An English Squire.= By C. R. COLERIDGE. (Low) 6_s._

An elder brother half Spanish and the conduct of the younger towards him.

=558. Gentleman Jim.= By Mrs. PRENTISS. (Nelson) 6_d._

A mining story, touching and spirited.

=559. Rudder Grange.= By F. STOCKTON. (Douglas) 1_s._

This most quaint and diverting American story is, among its other
perfections, a good protest against romance derived from penny dreadfuls.

=560. Country Maidens.= By M. BRAMSTON. (Marcus Ward) 3_s._ 6_d._

A very winning story. It brings in a sceptically inclined young man, but
he rights himself at last.

=561. Robert Ord’s Atonement.= By ROSA N. CAREY. (Bentley) 6_s._

A high-minded book.

=562. Emilia Wyndham.= By Mrs. MARSH. (Ward, Lock) 2_s._

There are many novels by this lady, perhaps out of print, but all are
harmless, sensible, and of a good tone.

=563. Dorothy’s Daughters.= By Mrs. MARSHALL. (Seeley) 5_s._

This too is one of many volumes of tales, all _safe_, and with a
religious and sensible tone.

=564. The Diamond Rose.= By SARAH TYTLER. (Strahan) 5_s._

This is our favourite among a large number of tales any one of which is
safe reading.

=565. Jasmine Lee.= By C. FRASER TYTLER. (Strahan) 5_s._

The piteous story of a poor little abducted heiress.

=566. Madeleine.= By JULIA KAVANAGH. (Chapman & Hall) 2_s._

The beautiful true tale of the French peasant girl who founded a hospital
for incurables.

=567. Gabrielle Vaughan.= (Seeley) 5_s._

A great favourite.

=568. A Vantage-Ground for doing Good.= By FLORENCE WILFORD. (Masters)
4_s._ 6_d._

=569. A Maiden of Our Own Day.= By FLORENCE WILFORD. (Masters) 6_s._

Both excellent in their different lines.

=570. Through Trial to Triumph.= By MAGGIE SYMINGTON. (Cassell) 2_s._
6_d._

The troubles of a wife who cannot understand her husband.

=571. A Young Philistine.= By ALICE CORKRAN. (Burns & Oates)

Three charming tales, two of foreign life, all teaching tenderness for
the feelings of others.

=572. A Promise Kept.= By MARY E. PALGRAVE. (National Society) 3_s._

Unusually striking and beautiful. A girl, whose dreams inspire missionary
ardour, yet who has not steadfastness or courage enough to follow out her
own visions when they may become earnest.

=573. By Northern Seas.= By MARY BELL. (Church Extension Society)

Dissent is here treated justly and fairly, and the tale is thoroughly
interesting, containing natural though striking characters.

=574. Byewords.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

Short tales mostly reprinted from the Christmas numbers of the ‘Monthly
Packet.’

=575. Uncle Max.= By R. N. CAREY. (Bentley)

An excellent tale of village nursing.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




FAIRY TALES.


    There are certain fairy tales that are absolute classics, and a
    knowledge of which is absolutely necessary to understand common
    allusions. The grandmothers have ceased to tell them, and the
    little chap-books are no more, so that it has happened to me to
    pause on a mention of ‘Cinderella’ or ‘Beauty and the Beast,’
    and find no one understand it, and I have kept a whole school
    interested while waiting for an entertainment by telling one
    of these. Therefore, a _small_ list is here given, for fairy
    tales should be regarded as treats, and only the superior ones
    put forth freely. It will generally be found that in the first
    stage of education they are despised, but that children of any
    imagination enjoy them. One or two _imaginative_ classics are
    added.

=576. The Fairy Book.= Selected by the Author of ‘John Halifax.’
(Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

These are the genuine old fairy tales, that ought to be known to
everyone, simply told.

=577. Grimm’s Fairy Tales.= Mrs. PAULL’S Selection. (Warne) 3_s._ 6_d._
or 2_s._ 6_d._ Globe edition (Macmillan) 2_s._

These two sets make up the real folk-lore tales—remnants of old myths, of
more modern ones.

=578. Hans Christian Andersen’s Fairy Tales.= Mrs. PAULL’S Selection.
(Warne) 3_s._ 6_d._

These have, by their merits, become almost as classical as their
predecessors, and quite as proverbial. The ‘Ugly Duckling’ and the
‘Daisy’ ought to be known to all.

=579. The Hope of the Katzekopfs.= By the Rev. F. PAGET. (Masters) 2_s._

Deserves to be classical for its fun and its moral.

=580. Old-fashioned Fairy Tales.= By Mrs. EWING. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

Modern, but according to the ancient rules of fairy tales.

=581. The Arabian Nights.= By the Rev. G. F. TOWNSEND. (Routledge) 3_s._
6_d._

These are almost necessary for the understanding of allusions, besides
the fascination of such tales as ‘Aladdin’s Lamp,’ ‘The Forty Thieves,’
or ‘Sindbad.’ It is remarkable that Hannah More thought even the old
uncastigated tradition translated from the French more wholesome reading
for young people than contemporary tales of character, perhaps because
less tending to introspection.

=582. Alice in Wonderland.= By LEWIS CARROLL. (Macmillan) 6_s._

=583. Through the Looking-Glass.= By LEWIS CARROLL. (Macmillan) 6_s._

It takes some cultivation to enjoy these wondrously droll compositions.

=584. The Water Babies.= By C. KINGSLEY. (Macmillan) 6_s._

The same may be said of this. These are literature, though we are not
sure whether ordinary school children would care for them.

=585. Fairy Legends of the South of Ireland.= By CROKER. (Swan
Sonnenschein) 5_s._

These are some of the most delightful fairy tales in existence, told with
an Irish humour that adds infinitely to their zest.

=586. The Light Princess.= By G. MACDONALD. (Daldy) 2_s._ 6_d._

Worthy to be old fairy tales.

=587. The Little Lame Prince.= By the Author of ‘John Halifax.’
(Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

Too beautiful and earnest not to be well worth reading.

=588. Four Winds Farm.= By Mrs. MOLESWORTH. (Macmillan)

One of the best of Mrs. Molesworth’s dream-like tales.

=589. Down the Snow Stairs.= By ALICE CORKRAN. (Blackie) 6_s._

Of the same type.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




MOTHERS’ MEETINGS.


    Weary, hardworked women thoroughly enjoy a bit of interesting
    reading, whether pathetic or droll. Foreign tales or those
    of adventure do not, as a rule, interest them, and the
    old-fashioned book, where a preternaturally wise dame instructs
    her neighbours is too much a lecture in disguise. By all means,
    let there be some religious reading, then if possible some on
    sanitary habits, domestic economy and management of children,
    but not under the disguise of a story. A good, genuine fiction
    gives them a real interest and something to talk of. It should
    not appear to be a child’s book or they will feel insulted,
    but they like nothing better than when the joys or sorrows
    turn on an infant; and there is no better mode of conveying
    indirect lessons—to some persons, that is to say, for there are
    others who have no notion of applying what they hear to real
    life. Still, wholesome amusement is a thing of which they get
    all too little, and the pleasure of being read to is one they
    thoroughly appreciate. Of course these books are specially
    fitted for lending to old or young. They are only classed under
    the category of books for Mothers’ Meetings because eminently
    fitted for that purpose as well as for Lending Library shelves.


_FICTION._

=590. A Dog’s Mission.= By Mrs. BEECHER STOWE. (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

A family reconciliation.

=591. The Story of the Lost Emerald.= By EMMA MARSHALL. (Nelson) 1_s._

The loss of an old maid’s much-valued jewel at a fire rouses her to think
of higher things.

=592. Pamela’s Bequest.= By Mrs. SANDFORD. (Walter Smith) 2_s._ 6_d._

The bequest is a delicate child, left by a dying mother to a kindly
little formal dressmaker while the father is at sea. The complications on
his return are most effective. When he makes a blundering offer and gets
refused, a listening woman has been known to rap the table in an ecstasy
of enjoyment.

=593. Afloat.= By Mrs. STANLEY LEATHES. (John F. Shaw) 3_s._ 6_d._

A family bereaved for a time of a little girl sent adrift in a boat by an
idiot. It excites great interest.

=594. Burnt Out.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 2_s._ 6_d._

On the demoralising effects of going about with a petition.

=595. Aunt Kezia’s Will.= By S. M. SITWELL. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

A family quarrel pacified through the love and interest excited by a
blind child.

=596. Laddie.= (Walter Smith) 1_s._

A most touching story of an old peasant woman’s journey to London to see
her son, who has risen to eminence as a doctor.

=597. Short Stories for Mothers’ Meetings.= By FLORENCE WILFORD.
(Masters) 2_s._

Well-written stories, especially fitted for those meetings where the
attendance is too irregular for continuous reading to be advisable.

=598. Tales for Mission Rooms.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

The first of these is a capital lesson on gossip; the second has a very
touching portrait in it.

=599. Meg’s Mistake.= By Mrs. O’REILLY. (Strahan)

Originally published as ‘Sussex Stories.’ Very lifelike, and two at
least can be read with admirable effect—namely, ‘Fairy Gold’ and another
bringing in the accident to the London steamboat ‘Princess Alice.’ The
others have been tried, but do not seem as well liked. Perhaps they are
too wordy.

=600. Pictures of Cottage Life.= By M. POOLE. (Macmillan) 3_s._ 6_d._

These are thoroughly delightful. There is an old woman with what she
thinks is a skeleton warning in her eye, also a deserted wife and an
adopted child, who all are completely real and as touching as they are
quaint.

=601. The Cottage Next Door.= By HELEN SHIPTON. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

The taming of a rough lad through the helplessness of the pretty little
silly wife and babies whom his brute of a brother abandons for a while.

=602. True Gold.= (Church Extension Society) 2_s._

A family at the gold-diggings, where the wife realises more at last by
making ginger-beer than the husband by all his find of nuggets, and her
faithful uprightness and industry are the saving of all.

=603. Harry’s Discipline.= By LAURA LANE. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

A good-natured careless young railway porter neglects his mother till
she is almost starved. The lesson is chiefly meant for the sons, but it
deeply affects the mothers, and is a warning to them not to spoil their
boys.

=604. The Lion Battalion.= Story 2. (See No. 21.)

=605. Little Meg’s Children.= (See No. 49.)

=606. Scenes in a Children’s Hospital.= By L. BURKE. (R.T.S.) 1_s._

Interests the mothers greatly.

=607. Wee Willie Winkie.= (Cassell) 1_s._ 6_d._

The beginning, being an old fisherman’s difficulties with a baby rescued
from a wreck, is much enjoyed. The latter part is neither so natural nor
so effective.

=608. What a Man Soweth.= By G. STEBBING. (Nisbet) 3_s._ 6_d._

A boy perverted by his mother laughing at small pilferings. The
conclusion is improbably happy, but the tale is excellent.

=609. The Storm of Life.= By HESBA STRETTON. (R.T.S.) 1_s._ 6_d._

A painful but very effective story of a poor woman just out of prison
striving to redeem her character and save her little girl from her wicked
husband. The only flaw in the book is the disregard of baptism for a babe
only born to die.

=610. An Innocent.= By S. M. SITWELL. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

Here a little half-witted girl is the good angel of her rough, careless
parents. The people are very naturally drawn.

=611. The Watchers on the Longships.= By J. F. COBB. (Wells Gardner,
Darton, & Co.) 3_s._ 6_d._

A lighthouse story. Very welcome on the coast, where a woman has been
known to lie awake thinking of it.

=612. My Little Patient.= (Masters) 6_d._

Supposed to be told by a doctor. Full of pathos, which touches mothers
more than it does children.

=613. Copsley Annals.= By Miss ELLIOT. (Seeley) 5_s._

A delightful book for all ages. Perhaps the best for mothers is the tale
that has been published separately under the title of

=614. Mrs. Blackett’s Story.= 1_s._

=615. Tried and True.= By FLORENCE WILFORD. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

The faithfulness of a fly driver, who wins his wife back from habits of
intoxication.

=616. Bearing the Yoke.= By HELEN SHIPTON. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

A young farmer weighed down by a liability incurred by his father.

=617. Young Sixfoot.= By Mrs. GARNETT. (S.P.C.K.) 6_d._

A navvy story, but likely to be highly appreciated by women.

=618. Tales of the Bush.= By Mrs. VIDAL. (Masters) 3_s._ 6_d._

Australian life, but good for all, especially one on Sunday trading.

=619. Daddy Dick.= By Mrs. BROMFIELD. 3_s._ 6_d._

The civilisation of a rude lad through a little waif. It appeals to the
maternal sympathy.

=620. An Empty House.= By E. WORDSWORTH. (Hatchards) 6_d._

A story of much power and beauty, turning on a crime committed by an
intoxicated man.

=621. Bede’s Charity.= By HESBA STRETTON. (R.T.S.) 3_s._ 6_d._

A beautiful and striking tale. No one can better strike the chords of
homely pathos than Hesba Stretton, but all her tales are not equal, and
some are written for special purposes.

=622. Friends till Death.= By HESBA STRETTON. (R.T.S.) 1_s._ 6_d._

The very touching affection of an old shepherd for his helpless friend.

=623. Homes Made and Marred.= (R.T.S.) 2_s._ 6_d._

Sensible and useful.

=624. Two Christmas Stories.= By HESBA STRETTON. (R.T.S.) 6_d._

The last is specially excellent when a short effective tale is wanted.

=625. Seeketh Not Her Own.= (See No. 500.)

=626. The Heroine of a Basket Van.= By MARY BRAMSTON. (National Society)
2_s._ 6_d._

Excellent for mothers as well as children.

=627. High and Lowly.= By ELLEN DAVIS. (Nisbet) 2_s._

Well-told migrations of a retired servant in search of a home. A Blue
Ribbon conquest at the end.

=628. For Half-a-Crown.= (See No. 114.)

=629. A Railway Garden.= By Mrs. SITWELL. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

A bright wife and a nagging wife, also a lesson against being hard on a
sinner.

=630. Gran.= (Nisbet) 2_s._ 6_d._

A drinking husband suddenly reformed by his child’s death.

=631. Five Thousand Pounds.= By AGNES GIBERNE. (Nisbet) 2_s._

A sad story of a legacy proving the ruin of a family.

=632. The Black Coppice.= By Mrs. LAWSON. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

A very excellent narrative of the trials of a poacher’s good wife,
entering more than do many such books into real difficulties in
Church-going.

=633. Two Poor Old Women.= By Mrs. LAWSON. (S.P.C.K.) 12_s._ per 100.

A spirited tract on content and discontent.


_COUNSEL._

    When the clergyman will open mothers’ meetings, and give a
    little instruction, this is all that is requisite to convey the
    religious tone. If he be not there, it may be well to begin
    with something serious. Some ladies can explain a chapter of
    the Bible, but in most cases a reading will be most convenient
    for the purpose. Here are a few suggested:—

=634. Letters from an Unknown Friend.= By the Author of ‘Charles Lowder.’
(Kegan Paul) 1_s._ (See No. 280.)

Short explanations of the claims of the Church, which may be useful as
guarding against Dissent.

=635. An Address to Women.= By the Bishop of CARLISLE. (S.P.C.K.) 2_d._

This is a most admirable, practical address given at the time of the
Carlisle Church Congress. It goes into the ordinary trials of woman’s
life with great force, and at the same time gives all encouragement.

=636. An Earnest Appeal to Mothers.= By Mrs. G. SUMNER. (Nisbet) 3_d._

Strong and touching appeals to mothers on guarding the purity of their
children from the first.

=637. A Few Words to Mothers of Little Children.= (Hatchards) 2_d._ each
or 50 at half-price.

Teaching the same lesson of preserving modesty. These three little books
may be given broadcast, but they will be more effective if first read.

=638. Half-hours at Mothers’ Meetings.= 2_s._

Some of the little discourses here are very useful. One entitled ‘The
Hour of Temper’ merits especial praise.

=639. The Chimney Corner.= By E. WORDSWORTH. (Hatchards) 1_s._ 6_d._

=640. Short Words for Long Evenings.= By E. WORDSWORTH. (Hatchards) 1_s._
6_d._

=641. Work-a-Day World.= By E. WORDSWORTH. (Hatchards) 1_s._ 6_d._

All the above three are deeply thoughtful, often poetical, yet simple
moralisings on common things.

=642. Plain Words.= By the Bishop of BEDFORD. One series 2_s._, or in
separate tracts in 3 packets, 1_s._ each.

The force and beauty of these need no praise here, and they have the
further merit of being just the right length.

=643. The Scripture Half-hour at Mothers’ Meetings.= (R.T.S.) 2_s._

There are some admirable bits here, especially in the way of true
anecdote and application, but some selection may be needful.

=644. Bits of Talk on Home Matters.= (Sampson Low) 2_s._

There are most admirable chapters in this little book; to be valued by
mothers of all degrees. ‘A polite mother’ is an admirable lesson.

    The above are serious. Those that follow are domestic and
    secular.

=645. Ways and Means in a Devonshire Village.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

Conversations on household management and cookery, done with spirit, and
eliciting remarks and comparisons.

=646. Lectures on Health.= By Mrs. HALLETT. (Hatchards) 1_s._ 6_d._

Very useful explanations of sanitary measures in plain language.

=647. How to be Well.= By Mrs. HALLETT. (Walter Smith) 1_s._

Good advice on clothing, food, and regulation.

=648. Till the Doctor Comes.= By Dr. HOPE. (R.T.S.) 6_d._, in cloth 9_d._

=649. The Making of the Home.= By Mrs. C. BARNETT. (Cassell) 1_s._ 6_d._

Very good hints on house, health, and clothes.

=650. Social Economy Reading Book.= (National Society) 2_s._

Even better adapted for reading _to_ mothers than by children.


_EXTRACTS._

    A few passages are here mentioned as serving well to read aloud
    at Mothers’ Meetings, though the whole book might not serve
    equally well.

=651. The Way of the Cross.= By EMILY S. HOLT. (Shaw) 1_s._ 6_d._

The ‘Web Ismene Wove,’ the third tale in this book, is exceedingly
beautiful, and is an excellent reading near Passiontide. It is the story
of a Greek girl at Jerusalem, who longs to make something to be used in
the service of the God of Israel. The white web she weaves comes to be
sold in haste to Joseph of Arimathæa, and thus her longing is fulfilled.
The second tale is harmless, being of the mother of Ahaz, and how she
spoilt her son; but the first would hardly be given or read aloud by
those who would shrink from the strong assertion that SS. James, Jude,
and Joses were sons of the Blessed Virgin.

=652. The Man on the Top of the Ark, and other Gospel Parables.= By
ALEXANDER MACLEOD SYMINGTON. (Nisbet) 1_s._

If at the end of the first parable the reader inserts the text, ‘The
like figure whereunto even Baptism doth now save us,’ the teaching is
complete. The application of the Brazen Serpent and the City of Refuge
is also excellent. They are the Biblical history dramatised, as it were.
(See No. 353.)

=653. Catharine and Crawfurd Tait.= (Macmillan) 2_s._ 6_d._ and 6_s._

If the reader can command her voice to get through it, the history of
Mrs. Tait’s successive bereavements will be listened to with intense
interest.

=654. Mrs. Gaskell’s Tales.= In 7 vols. (Smith, Elder, & Co.) 2_s._ 6_d._
and 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

=655. Libbie Marsh’s Three Eras.=

St. Valentine’s day. Story of a factory girl and a cripple.

=656. The Sexton’s Story.=

An heroic act of self-sacrifice.

=657. Christmas Storms and Sunshine.=

A quarrel made up over a baby.

These three admirable stories are bound up with others less useful
in collected editions of Mrs. Gaskell’s Tales, and are not to be had
separately.

=658.= In =Mary Barton=, by Mrs. GASKELL (Smith, Elder, & Co.) (see No.
551),

Job’s description of the two old men’s journey by the coach with the baby
cannot fail to enchant the women.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




FOR MISSIONARY WORKING-PARTIES.


    These are of such very different composition that all that
    can be done here is to suggest books bearing on varieties of
    Mission labour at home and abroad, such as may interest either
    cultivated ladies, middle-class women, or very young people.

=659. Home Workers for Foreign Missions.= By E. J. WHATELY. (R.T.S.)
1_s._ 6_d._

A remarkably sensible, clever book. Should be read by all beginning a
working-party, to show them what to do and what not to do.

=660. Black and White.= By H. FORDE. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

Short sketches of home and foreign missions admirably _sandwiched_
together.

=661. Pioneers and Founders.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

Brief biographies of English and American missionaries.

=662. Life of Henrietta Robertson.= By ANNE MACKENZIE. (Bell) 3_s._ 6_d._

A record of devoted labours in the earlier days of the Zulu mission.

=663. The Story of a Fellow-Soldier.= By FRANCES AWDRY. (Macmillan) 2_s._
6_d._

A short life of Bishop Patteson.

=664. An Elder Sister.= By FRANCES AWDRY. (Bemrose) 4_s._ 6_d._

The lives of Charles Mackenzie, first Bishop of Zululand, and his
fellow-worker and sister.

=665. Our Maoris.= By Lady MARTIN. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

Very life-like accounts of work in New Zealand almost from the first
settlement, often droll, always striking, taken from letters written at
the time the events happened.

=666. Three Martyrs of the Nineteenth Century.= (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

Short biographies of Dr. Livingstone, Bishop Patteson, and General Gordon.

=667. A Wider World.= By CRONA TEMPLE. (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

An attempt to show how interest in missionary life enlarges the whole
mind and interest. The execution is not equal to the conception, but,
such as it is, it may be a useful opening of the subject.

=668. New Ground.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) 3_s._

Story of a missionary’s family in Natal chiefly founded on letters from
the Mackenzie family.

=669. Life of Bishop Venables of Nassau.= By Rev. W. H. F. KING. (Wells
Gardner, Darton, & Co.) 3_s._ 6_d._

=670. Life of Bishop Field of Newfoundland.= By Rev. H. W. TUCKER. (Wells
Gardner, Darton, & Co.) 5_s._

Brief and very interesting biographies of two noble-hearted missionary
bishops.

=671. Ten Years among the Coloured Folk.=

This is an American clergyman’s experience among the emancipated negroes
of Baltimore. (A small book, about 2_s._, can no doubt be procured
through Sampson Low.)

=672. Dust Ho!= By H. A. FORDE. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

Descriptions of home mission work.

=673. Master Missionaries.= By Dr. A. H. JAPP. (Unwin) 3_s._ 6_d._

The life of General Oglethorpe, with which this begins, is very curious
and interesting. Fit for the educated.

=674. Effie and her Ayah.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

=675. Little Tija.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

Short studies of Indian child life, suited to a simple audience or those
including children.

=676. Alone among the Zulus.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._ 6_d._

The veritable adventures of a lady, some twenty years ago, when she went
to attend a brother who had fallen sick on a hunting expedition.

=677. Mrs. Poynter’s Missionary Box.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_d._

May be useful in showing how these can be used.

=678. My Two Years in an Indian Mission.= By H. F. BLACKETT. (S.P.C.K.)
1_s._ 6_d._

A vivid picture of actual mission work by the clergy; full of interest in
both town and country work.

=679. Ten Years in Melanesia.= By the Rev. ALFRED PENNY. (Wells Gardner,
Darton, & Co.) 5_s._

=680. Mission Work in British Guiana.= By the Rev. W. G. BRETT. 3_s._

A delightful book, if only regarded as one of travels.

=681. Sketches of Sarawak.= By Mrs. MACDOUGALL. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

There is unfailing interest in the narrative of the devoted life led by
Bishop and Mrs. Macdougall in the days of Rajah Brooke.

=682. Glimpses of Maori Land.= By ANNIE R. BUTLER. (R.T.S.) 5_s._

A delightful tour among the clergy in New Zealand.

=683. Klatsassan.= By C. S. BROWN. (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._

Missionary work in British Columbia.

=684. Straightforward.= By H. A. FORDE. (Church Extension Society) 1_s._

May be reckoned as properly a tale of adventure; but as it results in
intercourse with the Papuans, it might serve well for a work party
needing something of a story to keep up their attention.

=685. Our Navvies.= By Mrs. GARNETT. (Hodder) 3_s._ 6_d._

An excellent book that should be read whenever it is desirable to
interest people in navvy missions.

=686. A Promise Kept.= (See No. 572.)

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




IMPROVING BOOKS.


    Under this head are classed those on different countries, on
    history, biography, natural history, popular science, and real
    adventure.

    As has been said before, these are specially suited for prizes,
    as they will be read again in after life. For those intended
    for young people there will never be any great demand. In
    almost all lending libraries they stand still on their shelves
    with clean pages. We teach our children too much for them to be
    willing to learn for themselves. The appetite may come in after
    times, and sometimes may exist or be excited in some particular
    direction. In cases where young people are secluded from school
    by illness, it is desirable on all accounts that their mental
    fare should include something besides devotional books and
    fiction.

    To begin with, the use of maps and the reading lessons at
    school make scenes in different countries interesting, and
    perhaps the surest books to be appreciated as rewards are those
    giving pictures of costumes, &c.


_ON DIFFERENT COUNTRIES._

=687. All the Russias.= By E. C. PHILLIPS. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=688. Chats about Germany.= By M. BROWN. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=689. Round Africa.= By E. C. BRUCE. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=690. The Land of Temples.= By M. FIELD. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=691. New Zealand.= By B. FRANCIS. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=692. Glimpses of South America.= (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=693. A Ramble round France.= By J. CHESNEY. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=694. The Land of the Pyramids.= By J. CHESNEY. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=695. The Eastern Wonderland.= By B. C. ANGUS. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

=696. Peeps into China.= By E. C. PHILLIPS. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

These have ‘pictures’ to every other page, and are wonders of cheapness
and really interesting writing.

=697. In the Polar Regions.= (Nelson) 2_s._ 6_d._

=698. In the Temperate Regions.= (Nelson) 2_s._ 6_d._

=699. In the Tropical Regions.= (Nelson) 2_s._ 6_d._

All the above are compilations full of interesting descriptions and good
illustrations.

=700. Little Lucy’s Wonderful Globe.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 4_s._
6_d._

Sketches of child life in various lands, adapted to Frölich’s
illustrations. Too dear for a prize, but children like it when lent to
them.

=701. Child Life in Chinese Homes.= By Mrs. BRYSON. (R.T.S.) 5_s._

=702. The Children of Africa.= (Hodder & Stoughton) 5_s._

Fully illustrated, very easy and amusing, though China is better done
than Africa as being a less wide field.

=703. Early English Voyagers.= (Nelson) 5_s._

The voyages of Drake, Cavendish, and Dampier excellently told.

=704. Letters from Egypt.= By J. WHATELY. (Seeley).

A model of the style of thing.

=705. Germany.= By S. BARING-GOULD. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=706. Egypt.= By STANLEY LANE-POOLE. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=707. Denmark and Iceland.= By E. C. OTTÉ. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=708. France.= By the Author of ‘Mlle. Mori.’ (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=709. Japan.= By S. MOSSMAN. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=710. Russia.= By W. R. MORFILL. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=711. Austria.= By D. KAY. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=712. Greece.= By L. SERGEANT. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=713. West Indies.= By C. H. EDEN. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=714. Peru.= By CLEMENTS MARKHAM. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=715. Australia.= By J. F. VESEY FITZGERALD. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=716. Spain.= By WENTWORTH WEBSTER. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

=717. Sweden and Norway.= By F. H. WOODS. (Sampson Low) 3_s._ 6_d._

These are not so ornamental as Cassell’s series, though they have maps
and illustrations; but if I may judge from the two specimens I have
seen—namely, ‘France’ and ‘Germany’—they are full of interest and
information amusingly given, and would be excellent for any intelligent
person in need of knowledge of some special place. Very good for town or
club libraries where the readers rise above fiction.

=718. Great Waterfalls.= By JOHN GIBSON. (Nelson) 2_s._ 6_d._

Well-illustrated descriptions of cataracts and geysers.

=719. A Jolly Fellowship.= By F. STOCKTON. (Kegan Paul) 5_s._

The droll adventures of three American schoolboys who make a tour by
themselves in Florida and Cuba.

=720. Road to the North Pole.= (R.T.S.) Series I. and II., 1_s._ each.

An excellent abstract of the American Arctic expeditions of the ‘George
Henry,’ the ‘Polaris,’ and the ‘Jeannette.’


_ADVENTURES._

    These are truthful adventures, in contradistinction to the
    Kingston, Ballantyne, Verne, and other ‘books for boys’ which
    abound. Where we should _lend_ those we should _give_ these.

=721. Real Stories from Many Lands.= By Lady VERNEY. (S.P.C.K.) 9_d._

The wonderful first navigation of the Colorado. A terrible conflict
between a horse and a tiger, and the escape of Grotius. Easy, and likely
to satisfy the children who ask ‘Is it true?’

=722. Perils of the Deep.= (S.P.C.K.) 4_s._

Collections of the most striking and memorable wrecks and other trials of
sailors. Just the book for men or boys invalided.

=723. Peril and Adventure.= By L. VALENTINE. (Warne) 2_s._

=724. Valour and Enterprise.= By L. VALENTINE. (Warne) 2_s._

=725. Brave Days of Old.= By L. VALENTINE. (Warne) 2_s._

=726. Daring and Doing.= By L. VALENTINE. (Warne) 2_s._

=727. On Honour’s Roll.= By L. VALENTINE. (Warne) 3_s._ 6_d._

=728. Heroism and Adventure.= By L. VALENTINE. (Warne) 3_s._ 6_d._

=729. Sea Fights and Land Battles.= By L. VALENTINE. (Warne) 3_s._ 6_d._

Noble deeds, _true_ and inspiring, such as should go to the heart of
brave lads.

=730. A Book of Golden Deeds.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._
Selection, 1_s._

Heroic actions in all ages.

=731. Heroes of the Arctic and their Adventures.= By WHYMPER. (S.P.C.K.)
3_s._ 6_d._

=732. Across the Pampas.= By Sir F. HEAD. (Murray) 2_s._

One of those spirited and delightful books that never grow stale.

=733. Anson’s Voyages.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_s._ 6_d._

Compressed, and ever interesting.

=734. Wanderings in South America.= By CHARLES WATERTON. (Macmillan)
6_s._ or 6_d._

The most delightful of true travellers’ wonders.

=735. Lady Brassey’s Voyage in the ‘Sunbeam.’= (Longmans) 6_d._

Later aspects of the world.

=736. Ride to Khiva.= By Col. FRED. BURNABY. (Cassell) 1_s._ 6_d._

Highly interesting in the present state of things. Where there is a set
of readers open to the interest of books of travels, a watch had better
be kept on Mudie’s second-hand list.

=737. Around and About Old England.= By C. L. MATÉAUX. (Cassell) 3_s._
6_d._

=738. Huc’s Life and Travels in Tartary.= (Nelson) 1_s._

The adventures of the two Jesuit missionaries made a great sensation at
the time of publication, and are most amusing.

=739. Egypt and Nubia.= By J. ST. JOHN. (Chapman & Hall)

A book with much reading in it, and likely to be very much read if still
in print.

=740. Two Years in the Region of Icebergs.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




HISTORY.


    History is seldom very acceptable to young people of the
    working classes. They do not live in a sufficiently cultivated
    atmosphere to keep up interest in what they learn at school;
    but sometimes an event or perhaps an historical tale rouses
    their curiosity, and those a little more cultivated ought
    to learn to read for themselves. Histories are particularly
    desirable as prizes, since they may be used and referred to
    through life. Moreover, everything should be done to get
    pupil-teachers beyond the mere cram of names and dates.

=741. The Story of Russia.= By M. E. BENSON. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

=742. The Story of Norway.= By C. E. SEDGWICK. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

=743. The Story of Switzerland.= By F. M. LEE. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

=744. The Story of Spain.= By JULIA HUXLEY. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

=745. The Story of Denmark.= By C. E. SEDGWICK. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

=746. The Story of Holland.= By ISABEL DON. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

=747. The Story of Iceland.= By LETITIA MACOLL. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

Capital brief sketches of people, country, and history. Not difficult,
but familiar and amusing. Illustrated and prettily got up.


_SHORT STORIES ON HISTORY._

=748. English.= (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._

=749. France.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

=750. Germany.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

=751. Spain.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

=752. Sweden.= (S.P.C.K.) 1_s._

These are history chiefly in conversation. They are fairly well done, but
it is generally difficult to excite interest in foreign histories.


_JUVENILE ENGLISHMEN’S HISTORICAL LIBRARY._

=753. History of England.= By J. M. NEALE. (Masters) 1_s._ 6_d._

=754. History of Greece.= By J. M. NEALE. (Masters) 2_s._

=755. History of Rome.= By S. FOX. (Masters) 2_s._

=756. History of Spain.= By B. J. JOHNS. (Masters) 2_s._

=757. History of Portugal.= By J. M. NEALE. (Masters) 2_s._

=758. History of Ireland.= By T. K. ARNOLD. (Masters) 1_s._ 6_d._

=759. History of Scotland.= By W. B. FLOWER. (Masters) 2_s._

Plainly got up, but telling much that is useful.

=Aunt Charlotte’s Histories=, by C. M. YONGE, namely—

=760. Scripture.= (Marcus Ward) 6_s._ or 2_s._

=761. England.= (Marcus Ward) 6_s._ or 1_s._ 6_d._

=762. France.= (Marcus Ward) 6_s._

=763. Germany.= (Marcus Ward) 6_s._

=764. Greece.= (Marcus Ward) 6_s._

=765. Rome.= (Marcus Ward) 6_s._

=766. America.= (Marcus Ward) 6_s._

These, except the two first, of which there are cheaper editions, are too
full of illustrations not to be costly.

=767. Lectures on the History of England for Working Men and Women.= By
M. GUEST. (Macmillan) 6_s._

An epitome of life and manners in England, actually composed for and read
aloud to an audience of mechanics.

=768. The Story of the Crusades.= (Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

=769. Children of Westminster Abbey.= By ROSE KINGSLEY. (Sampson Low)
5_s._

Descriptions of the building and the monuments, with histories of the
persons there buried, showing a most loving hand.

=770. Stories of the Tower.= By M. WILSON. (Cassell) 2_s._

Narratives of the chief events, and histories of the chief prisoners of
the Tower. These two should be in all libraries for Londoners.

=771. Two of England’s Wars=; or, =Theodore and Coffee=. (R.T.S.) 1_s._
6_d._

Well and shortly told histories of the Abyssinian and Ashantee campaigns.

=772. Talks about the Laws we live under.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith)
2_s._

An endeavour to give a popular account of our institutions and
authorities.

=773. The Citizen Reader.= (Cassell) 1_s._ 6_d._

The same work, so much better done that it is to be regretted that it
should be so evidently intended as a school-book.

=774. Cawnpore.= By Sir GEORGE TREVELYAN. (Macmillan) 6_s._

A terrible history, riveting interest.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




BIOGRAPHY.


    A real life often speaks more plainly and effectively than a
    hundred sermons or exhortations. And as childhood is outgrown,
    intelligent persons will have a curiosity about those whose
    names they may have heard.

=Cassell’s World’s Workers=, namely—

=775. General Gordon.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=776. Charles Dickens.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=777. Titus Salt and George Moore.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=778. Florence Nightingale.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=779. Sir H. Havelock.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=780. Abraham Lincoln.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=781. Livingstone.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=782. Franklin.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=783. Cobden.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=784. Handel.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=785. Turner.= (Cassell) 1_s._

=786. G. and R. Stephenson.= (Cassell) 1_s._

These are full of life, not too long, and exactly suited to their purpose.

=787. Life of Dr. Kane, the Arctic Hero.= By M. JONES. (Nelson) 2_s._

=788. Baron von Humboldt.= By M. JONES. (Nelson) 2_s._

Illustrated, and excellent for presents.

=789. Sir David Wilkie and his Works.= (Nelson) 2_s._

=790. Charles Kingsley.= People’s edition. (Kegan Paul) 4_s._ 6_d._

This is a book that should be widely dispersed among the more
intelligent, especially where there is much temptation to scepticism.

=791. Charles Lowder.= (Kegan Paul) 3_s._ 6_d._

A biography that wins the heart as much as did the man.

=792. Life of the Earl of Shaftesbury.= By EDWIN HODDER. (Cassell) 7_s._
6_d._

So noble, pure, devoted, and charitable a life ought to be known to all.

=793. Sister Dora.= By M. LONSDALE. (Kegan Paul) 2_s._ 6_d._

Excites the warmest enthusiasm.

=794. The Story of a Fellow-Soldier.= By F. AWDRY. (Macmillan) 2_s._ 6_d._

An abridged life of Bishop Patteson.

=795. An Elder Sister.= By F. AWDRY. (Bemrose) 4_s._ 6_d._

Bishop Charles Mackenzie and his sister Anne.

=796. Life of Oberlin.= By Mrs. BUTLER. (R.T.S.) 3_s._ 6_d._ or 6_d._

The latter very small, but in cloth.

=797. Nelson.= By SOUTHEY. (Warne) 2_s._ 6_d._ (Routledge) 1_s._

Needs no praise.

=798. Life of Washington.= 1_s._

=799. From the Log Cabin to the White House.= (Warne) 1_s._

=800. From the Tan Yard to the White House.= 1_s._

The two latter are lives of Garfield and Grant, sensationally but not
unwholesomely told.

=801. Hannah More.= By ANNA J. BUCKLAND. (R.T.S.) 3_s._

Very well told.

=802. Book of Worthies.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

Chiefly from ancient history.

=803. Biographies of Good Women.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter Smith) Vol. I.
6_s._ Vol. II. 7_s._

=804. Notable Workers in Humble Life.= By the Rev. E. N. HOARE. (Nelson)
2_s._

An admirable and inspiriting book. Dick, Edward, Pound, Duncan, here
appear as men who looked not to raise themselves in a worldly sense, but
for better things.

=805. The Peasant-Boy Philosopher.= (Routledge) 3_s._ 6_d._

Life of James Ferguson.

=806. A Few Good Women.= By CATHARINE MACSORLEY. (Hogg) 3_s._ 6_d._

Lives of Mrs. Somerville, Lady Derby, the Princess de Lamballe, &c.

=807. Heroes of the Indian Empire.= By R. FOSTER. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

Lives of our great men in India from Clive to Havelock.

    If more historical biographies are desired, there is an
    excellent series edited by Professor Creighton; also some good
    ones of S.P.C.K., but those here selected are chiefly those
    that are modern enough to interest the average library reader,
    of the sort who does not want either fiction or absolutely
    religious biography.

    It is not easy to choose among the many lives of the Queen that
    the Jubilee has brought forth. S.P.C.K. and R.T.S. have each
    a large handsome one and a penny one. ‘_The First Lady in the
    Land_’ (Wells Gardner, Darton, & Co.) is cheap and attractive.
    Tulloch’s ‘_Life of Queen Victoria_’ (Nisbet) for boys and
    girls, and Miss Yonge’s ‘_Victorian Half Century_’ (Macmillan),
    1_s._ or 1_s._ 6_d._, have both had the honour of Her Majesty’s
    correction, and are both for the young; Tulloch’s, perhaps, for
    the youngest. Another life of Queen Victoria (Nelson), 1_s._
    6_d._, is a marvel of cheapness and very prettily told.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




CHURCH HISTORY.


=808. History of the Early Church.= By Miss SEWELL. (Longmans) 4_s._ 6_d._

Easy narrative, going through the first three centuries.

=809. The Mother Church.= By C. A. JONES. 3_s._

Simply told history of the early English Church.

=810. Church History.= By the Rev. J. M. NEALE. (Walter Smith) 3_s._ 6_d._

Vividly told as a congenial subject. The first three centuries.

=811. Eighteen Centuries of Church History.= By C. M. YONGE. (Walter
Smith) 5_s._

An attempt to give salient facts in short easy chapters.

=812. Turning-Points of General Church History.= By the Rev. E. CUTTS.
(S.P.C.K.) 5_s._

Very valuable as giving the most important events in ready form and short
compass.

=813. Turning-Points of English Church History.= By the Rev. E. CUTTS.
(S.P.C.K.) 3_s._ 6_d._

Equally good and nearer home.

=814. Church History.= By the Rev. A. D. CRAKE, B.A. (Rivingtons) 7_s._
6_d._

Full and interesting; up to the Council of Nicæa.

=815. English Church History.= By Canon PERRY. (Murray) 3 vols. 7_s._
6_d._ each.

Admirable histories of the Church in England.

=816. Student’s Church History.= (Murray) 2 vols. 7_s._ 6_d._ each.

A valuable epitome.

=817. Epochs of Church History.= Edited by Canon Creighton. (Longmans)
2_s._ 6_d._ per vol.

These are =The Church and the Roman Empire=, by the Rev. A. CARR. =The
Church of the Early Fathers=, by the Rev. D. PLUMMER. =The University of
Oxford=, by Hon. G. L. BRODRICK. =The Reformation in England=, by G. G.
PERRY. =The Church and the Puritans=, by H. O. WAKEMAN. =The Evangelical
Revival=, by Canon OVERTON. =The English Church in Other Lands=, by the
Rev. H. W. TUCKER.

These are excellent to give to schoolmasters or persons with some
education and knowledge of history, but needing further elucidation of
‘turning-points.’

=818. English Church History.= By C. M. YONGE. (National Society) 1_s._
6_d._ and 2_s._

An easy account. Meant for schools.

=819. Lights and Shadows of Church History.= By the Rev. W. HARDMAN. 4_s._

A series of excellent brief sermon lectures on the most noted facts in
the growth of the Church. It has the merit of not being too long, and is
fit for readers of superior education.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




NATURAL HISTORY.


    I have not found natural history popular in libraries. Indeed,
    I have known a magazine given up because there was too much of
    it. The children have a large amount of it in their Readers at
    school, where they like it, as it is a less dry subject than is
    presented by many of their lessons. If they belong to the Band
    of Mercy they sometimes have to get up the subject, and there
    is no doubt that this conduces to the cure of wanton cruelty.
    But though, as an alternative to a real study, children will
    enjoy an anecdote, and though a master, mistress, or friend
    can lead them to use their eyes and assist in some pursuit or
    collection, it is only the exceptional ones with a developed
    taste who will voluntarily read more than an occasional story.
    Where there is a real taste in one direction, technical books
    can be supplied, but the aim of the lending library can only
    be to give out works of general information or interest, such
    as may lead to a love of nature, prevent wanton or careless
    barbarity, and possibly excite a wholesome taste in some
    special direction. The S.P.C.K. has excellent technical and
    popular manuals, but these are fit for those who wish to
    _study_ their subject, and should be possessed, not borrowed.

    For lending may be suggested:—

=820. Population of an Old Pear Tree.= From the French of VAN BRUYSSELL.
(Macmillan) 4_s._ 6_d._

Capitally illustrated, and full of loveliness of description of the
insect inhabitants of the tree.

=821. Chapters on Popular Natural History.= By Sir J. LUBBOCK. (National
Society) 1_s._ 6_d._ and 2_s._

Though published as a reading book, this is better for lending.

=822. Outdoor Common Birds.= Eighty illustrations. (Warne) 1_s._ 6_d._

Even country children need this. They observe birds very little, and
hardly know the names of any; even local provincial names are few, and
they need to learn not to regard birds as enemies to be robbed and
slaughtered.

=823. Our Dogs.= By Mrs. BEECHER STOWE. (Nelson) 1_s._

Real dogs—very good for readings and prizes for a Band of Mercy.

=824. Songs of Animal Life.= By MARY HOWITT. (Nelson) 1_s._

=825. With the Birds.= By MARY HOWITT. (Nelson) 1_s._

Perhaps children have come to look on poetry as necessarily lessons. If
not, these are excellent gift-books for little ones.

=826. Talks with Uncle Richard about Wild Animals.= By Mrs. CUPPLES.
(Nelson) 1_s._ 6_d._

=827. Stories of the Cat and her Cousins.= By Mrs. SURR. (Nelson) 1_s._
6_d._

=828. Stories of the Dog and his Cousins.= By Mrs. SURR. (Nelson) 1_s._
6_d._

=829. Tappy’s Chicks.= By Mrs. CUPPLES. (Sonnenschein) 2_s._ 6_d._

Interesting stories of animal life.

=830. Homes without Hands.= By the Rev. J. G. WOOD. (Longmans) 10_s._
6_d._

Very delightful accounts of the constructions of moles, bees, &c.

=831. Hidden Homes.= By M. A. PAULL. (Nisbet) 2_s._ 6_d._

Many of the same facts as in Mr. Wood’s book, but made easy and put into
a story. The ants and bees tell their habits pleasantly.

=832. Birds’ Nests and Eggs.= By the Rev. C. A. JOHNS. (S.P.C.K.) 3_s._

Encouragement in birds’ nesting is not desirable, but if there be a
school museum such a book as this is wanted.

=833. Bird Songs and Bird Pictures.= (R.T.S.) 1_s._

=834. Homes of the Birds.= (Nelson) 2_s._

=835. Lessons taught by Dumb Animals.= (S.P.C.K.) 8_d._

=836. Jenny and the Insects.= (Nelson) 2_s._

=837. Botany Reading Books.= (National Society) 1_s._ and 1_s._ 8_d._

=838. Rambles in Search of Wild Flowers.= By Miss PLUES. (Bell) 7_s._
6_d._

This is a real manual by which the names of English flowers may be found.

=839. The Herb of the Field.= By C. M. YONGE. (Macmillan) 6_s._

Easy botany for young children.

=840. Apples and Oranges.= By Mrs. DYSON. (R.T.S.) 3_s._ 6_d._

An excellent book, giving the marvellous structure and history of fruits
in a delightful manner, fit for any reader.

=841. White’s Selborne.= (Macmillan) 6_s._ (Walter Scott) 1_s._

=842. Sea Monsters and Sea Birds.= By Dr. G. HARTWIG. (Longmans) 2_s._
6_d._

=843. Wild Animals of the Tropics.= By Dr. G. HARTWIG. (Longmans) 3_s._
6_d._

=844. Wild Animals of the Bible.= By the Rev. J. G. WOOD. (Longmans)
3_s._ 6_d._

=845. Homes under the Ground.= By the Rev. J. G. WOOD. (Longmans) 3_s._
6_d._

These are full of anecdote and interest for young people.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




BOOKS ON SCIENCE AND INVENTION.


    These are few, but lending library books should not be
    treatises, they should only excite curiosity and give general
    information.

=846. Star Lessons.= By R. A. PROCTOR. (Chatto & Windus) 6_s._

Substantial and real study.

=847. Pictures of the Heavens.= By C. DYSON. (Walter Smith) 3_s._

Beginnings of astronomy.

=848. Sun, Moon, and Stars.= By AGNES GIBERNE. (Seeley) 5_s._

=849. Among the Stars.= By AGNES GIBERNE. (Seeley) 5_s._

Valuable introductions to astronomy, such as young people of any
intelligence ought to be induced to read.

=850. Madam How and Lady Why.= By Canon KINGSLEY. (Macmillan) 6_s._

Unrivalled exposition of the earth we tread on.

=851. The World’s Lumber Room.= By SELINA GAYE. (Cassell) 2_s._ 6_d._

Interesting information about the various uses to which refuse materials
can be applied.

=852. Engine-Driving Life.= (Crosby Lockwood) 1_s._ 6_d._

The true history of the training and the adventures met with on the
railroad by the brave men to whom so many lives are entrusted. It is
keenly interesting.

=853. Stories of Invention.= By E. HALE. (Nelson) 2_s._ 6_d._

If a very American ‘setting’ be no objection, this gives a capital
account of inventors and inventions.

=854. Nature’s Wonders.= By the Rev. R. NEWTON, D.D.

=855. Science Gleanings.= (Nelson) Each 2_s._ 6_d._

Collections of striking phenomena with their explanation.

=856. Chips from the Earth’s Crust.= (Nelson) 2_s._ 6_d._

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




RELIGIOUS BOOKS.


    Very few directly religious books are here suggested. It is not
    well to give a very serious book in a chance way to a young
    creature expecting amusement. And the best books are fit rather
    to make a lengthened stay with the reader than to be handed on
    in the library. Tracts for special purposes do not belong to
    the general class of books in circulation, and those here set
    down are chiefly such as give information on principles, rather
    than actually devotional books or sermons.

=857. Plain Words.= By the Bishop of BEDFORD. (Wells Gardner Darton, &
Co.) 4 vols. 2_s._ each.

No words are wanted to praise this well-known book.

=858. The Light of Conscience.= (Rivingtons) 2_s._ 6_d._

Useful as showing how to deal with oneself.

=859. Church Doctrine and Bible Truths.= (Bell & Daldy) 3_s._ 6_d._

Excellent instruction.

=860. Last Years of Our Lord’s Ministry.= By Dean HOOK. (Griffith,
Farran, & Co.) 5_s._

Needs no praise.

=861. Holy Living and Dying.= By Bishop JEREMY TAYLOR. (Rivingtons) 1_s._
each.

Still as true as ever.

=862. Readings for the Aged.= (Sackville College Sermons.) By the Rev. J.
M. NEALE. (Masters) Complete set, 4 vols., 28_s._ 6_d._

Discourses to the inmates of Sackville College, chiefly on Blackletter
Saints.

=863. Plain Church Teaching.= (Masters) 3_s._ and 4_s._

Short and excellent readings on the Sundays of the year.

=864. Tracts on Church Principles.= (Masters) 1_s._ 6_d._

=865. Personal Religion.= By Dean GOULBURN. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

Often makes a great impression.

=866. The Pursuit of Holiness.= By Dean GOULBURN. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

The sequel of the above.

=867. Household Theology.= By Rev. J. H. BLUNT. (Rivingtons) 3_s._ 6_d._

=868. Twilight of Life.= By the Rev. J. ELLERTON. (Cassell)

One of the few books in large type for aged eyes.

=869. Heart Chords.= (Cassell) 1_s._

There are a number of these little books, by different authors, among
them Bishops Boyd Carpenter and Ashton Oxenden. Useful religious books;
good gifts for thoughtful persons.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




MAGAZINES.


    It is very desirable to get good magazines taken in by the
    parishioners. They are the most effectual means of occupying
    the ground against hurtful publications, and serial stories
    running on keep up the interest. If a shopkeeper can be made
    an agent, with a small percentage, the affair will thrive, as
    children’s magazines may be subscribed for at school.

=870. Little One’s Own Picture Paper.= (Dean) 1_d._

The pictures are wonderfully good, so are the verses. Capital for showing
to the infant class at a Sunday school.

=871. The Rosebud.= (Clarke & Co.) 1_d._

For very small children.

=872. The Children’s Pictorial.= (S.P.C.K.) 2_d._

Full of chromolithographs; but the stories are not serial, and this
_some_ children do not like.

=873. The Prize.= (Wells Gardner, Darton, & Co.) 1_d._

This bears a highly coloured ‘picture,’ and is greatly liked.

=874. The Child’s Companion.= (R.T.S.) 1_d._

Well illustrated, and with pretty stories and short religious lessons.

=875. Chatterbox.= (Wells Gardner, Darton, & Co.) Weekly, ½_d._ Monthly,
3_d._

Well illustrated and amusing; fit for young people somewhat older. The
information is capital.

=876. Little Folks.= (Cassell) 6_d._

A somewhat superior article, with sensible tales, original
correspondence, and prize competitions. Matter fairly good.

=877. My Sunday Friend.= (Mowbray) 1_d._

With the strongest Church tone of all these, and useful Sunday questions.
Stories good.

=878. Sunshine.= 1_d._

Fairly good; but the Bible questions are too like riddles.

=879. Boy’s Own Paper.= (R.T.S.) 1_d._ weekly, 6_d._ monthly.

Capital, and full of adventurous tales.

=880. Girl’s Own Paper.= (R.T.S.) 1_d._ weekly, 6_d._ monthly.

Hardly equal to the Boy’s, but very much appreciated by girls in their
teens, whose wants it seems to satisfy in a sensible, innocent way.

=881. Dawn of Day.= (S.P.C.K.) ½_d._

Fit for older children and young people. Can be localised.

=882. Atalanta.= (Hatchards) 6_d._

Especially for young girls, and proposing very useful subjects for
competition.

=883. Penny Post.= (Parker) 1_d._

The eldest of all these, and still keeping up its reputation.

=884. The Youth’s Companion.=

An American weekly published by Perry, 41 Temple Place, Boston. A
subscription of 10_s._ per annum would bring it to England, and it has
some of the best reading for young folks that we know.

=885. Parish Magazine.= (Wells Gardner, Darton, & Co.) 1_d._

The first of all to be localised. Always fairly good.

=886. Banner of Faith.= (Church Extension Society) 3_s._ 6_d._ per volume.

With a strong Church tone. Very spirited. Can be localised.

=887. The Gospeller.= (Mowbray) 1_d._

More decidedly religious reading. Can be localised.

=888. The Leisure Hour.= Monthly, 6_d._; 7_s._ per volume.

A mixture of tales and information.

=889. The Quiver.= (Cassell) 6_d._

Of the same character. Monthly, and for Sunday reading, and thus
containing articles on Holy Scripture.

=890. Cassell’s Family Magazine.= Monthly, 7_d._

Of a more secular but wholesome character, with tales and substantial
information.

=891. Good Words.= (Isbister) 6_d._

Commands the ablest writers and comes the nearest to literature. Men
are more likely to read it than the others. There is always a religious
article or two—‘unsectarian.’

=892. The Net.= (Bemrose & Sons) 1_d._

Valuable as giving vivid accounts of missions.

=893. The Gospel Missionary.= (Bell) ½_d._

Keeping up interest in missions.

=894. The Coral Magazine.= (Wells Gardner, Darton, & Co.) 1_d._

On the part of the Church Missionary Society.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




PENNY READINGS.


    The foremost counsel to be given to those commencing Penny
    Readings is to beware of exciting an expectation that all
    readings and recitations shall be comic. It is probable that
    a considerable proportion of the audience will enjoy what is
    adventurous or pathetic; but if the lads, whose prime object
    is to make a noise, once get into the habit of expecting
    that everything shall be the occasion of laughing, they will
    consider themselves defrauded by anything else, and spoil all
    chance of listening. Even if they come in a civilised mood, a
    little excitement will set them off, and make them unmanageable
    all the rest of the time, and habits will set in which will
    drive the readers at last into mere buffoonery. Drollery is
    quite expedient, but it should be only just at the end, as a
    _bonne bouche_, when the uproariousness which it creates can
    speedily be worked off out of doors, or else a race of young
    tyrants will be raised up who will effectually prevent taste
    from being raised among the audience.


_POETRY FOR READING OR RECITATION._

    Poetry answers better than prose if WELL recited or read, and
    a child is generally rapturously listened to if it can do the
    thing with spirit and not like a lesson.

=895. The Lifeboat, and Other Poems.= By GEORGE R. SIMS. (Fuller) 1_s._

The first of these has been known to excite tears where the audience had
not been demoralised by overmuch of the comic.

=896. The Platelayer.= In MAY PROCTER’S Poems.

=897. The Noble Mercer.= By JEAN INGELOW.

The story of Winstanley’s lighthouse at the Eddystone. Rather long, but
very effective.

=898. Brough Bells.= By SOUTHEY.

The legend of the bells given by John Brunskill to Brough.

=899. The Bear and the Goblin.= By the Rev. F. DAWSON.

To be found in ‘Aunt Charlotte’s Evenings at Home.’ (Marcus Ward) Rather
long, but very amusing.

=900. George Nidiver.= From ‘Society and Solitude.’ (Emerson)

An heroic incident. Also to be found in ‘Aunt Charlotte’s Evenings at
Home.’

=901. Paul Revere’s Ride.= By LONGFELLOW.

A spirited incident of the first American war.

=902. Barbara Fritchie.= By WHITTIER.

A heroine of the War of the Secession.

=903. Sir Humphrey Gilbert.= By LONGFELLOW.

=904. King Robert of Sicily.= By LONGFELLOW.

=905. Loss of the ‘Birkenhead.’= By Sir F. DOYLE.

=906. George the Triller.= By C. M. YONGE. From ‘Book of Golden Deeds.’

The capture and rescue of the two princes of Saxony, ancestors of the
Prince Consort.

    Some of Lockhart’s ‘Spanish Ballads’ would be liked in some
    places, and to many the ‘Children in the Wood’ and others of
    the old English ballads would be new.

=907. Bells of Botreaux.= By the Rev. R. HAWKER.

The bells sunk in the bay just after the captain had pronounced the safe
voyage due to his own seamanship.

=908. Sir Richard Grenville.= By Lord TENNYSON.

=909. Song of the Shirt.= By HOOD.

=910. Charge of the Light Brigade.= By Sir F. DOYLE.

Could not this be followed up by singing Tennyson’s Charge?

=911. Ballads.= By the Rev. F. LANGBRIDGE. (Cassell)

Some serious, some comic, well suited for the purpose.


_COMIC RECITATIONS._

=912. The Crocodile King.= By SOUTHEY.

=913. Pairing Time Anticipated.= By COWPER.

=914. The Distressed Travellers; or, Labour in Vain.= By COWPER.

A dialogue. If not in his poems, in Southey’s ‘Life of Cowper;’ also in
‘Aunt Charlotte’s Evenings at Home.’

=915. Miss Kilmansegg and Her Golden Leg.= By HOOD.

If judiciously abridged, this will answer well.

=916. The Walrus and the Carpenter.= By LEWIS CARROLL. From ‘Through the
Looking-Glass.’

=917. The Elephant.= In ‘Aunt Charlotte’s Evenings at Home.’

=918. The Lady and the Pie.= By HANNAH MORE.

A clever and now forgotten fable on curiosity. To be found in H. More’s
works.

=919. The ‘Anon, Anon, Sir,’ Scene.= Shakespeare’s Henry IV., Part I.,
Act 2, Sc. iv., as far as ‘Enter Vintner.’

Might be read or recited. Two persons visible and one out of sight to
call Francis.


_READINGS._

=920. Hurricane in the West Indies.= In Marryat’s ‘Peter Simple.’

=921. An Incident in the Pacific.=

A wonderful volcanic adventure told in vol. i., p. 142, of ‘Nature and
Art,’ a magazine published in 1866 by Day and Son.

=922. Wreck of the ‘Magpie.’= In ‘Book of Golden Deeds.’ (See No. 730.)

=923. Mary’s Ark.= By BRET HARTE, in ‘The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other
Tales.’

A woman saved on a tree in a flood of the Mississippi.

=924. Rab and his Friends.= By Dr. JOHN BROWNE. (Douglas) 6_d._

In ‘Remains of Dr. J. Browne.’

=925. The Sexton’s Hero.= By Mrs. GASKELL. (See No. 656.)

=926. Discovery of the Colorado.= By Lady VERNEY. In ‘Real Stories from
Many Lands.’ No. 721.

=927. Eric’s Grave.=

=928. Helmsman of Lake Erie.=

These two, taken from Neale’s ‘Triumphs of the Cross,’ are also published
in one book, price 4_d._ (See No. 361.)

=929. A Saltash Story.= (F. M. P.) From the ‘Monthly Packet.’

=930. A Night of Terror.= From a Christmas Number of the ‘Monthly Packet.’

=931. Christmas Tale.= By HESBA STRETTON. 2_d._

The miserly man who kept his hoards in his old trousers.

=932. The Ghost at Fantford.= By C. M. YONGE. In ‘Byewords.’ (Macmillan)
No. 574.

=933. Wanted, a Letter Carrier.= From the ‘Monthly Packet,’ Christmas
Number, 1871.


_COMIC READINGS._

=934. Daniel O’Rourke’s Journey to the Moon.=

=935. Legend of Knock Grafton.=

=936. Hill of the Fairy Calf.=

=937. The Wonderful Tune.=

These four are in ‘Croker’s Fairy Legends,’ republished by Swan
Sonnenschein. Some of the stories in ‘Uncle Remus.’

=938. Black Poodle.= By F. ANSTEY. No. II. of ‘Longman’s Magazine.’

=939. Tom Tumbletoes and the Cow.= From the ‘Monthly Packet,’ V. 1st
series. (Walter Smith)

=940. A Yorkshire Butcher.= By the Rev. SABINE BARING-GOULD. In
‘Yorkshire Oddities,’ p. 139. (Hodges)

=941. The Queen of the Dentists.= By the Rev. S. BARING-GOULD. In ‘Just
One More Tale.’ (Skeffington) 3_s._ 6_d._

=942. Wow Wow.= By the Rev. S. BARING-GOULD. In ‘Just One More Tale.’
(Skeffington) 3_s._ 6_d._

=943. The Two Bulls.= By Mrs. BEECHER STOWE. In ‘Old Town Stories.’
(Sampson Low)

=944. Calf Reared on Sawdust.=

=945. Been in the Omnibus.=

=946. The Old Sow.=

=947. The Bewitched Boots.= All these four are in ‘The Boy with an Idea.’
No. 138.

=948. The Colonel’s Fall.= By F. M. PEARD. In ‘Princess Alethea.’ (Smith,
Elder, & Co.)

A gentleman, who, finding his own house deserted on his return from a
journey, tries to get in by a window, falls into the water-butt, and is
taken for a burglar.

=949. Pay your Debt; or, Jack Colquhoun.=

=950. The Enchanted Sledge.=

Anyone who chances to possess the first year’s volume of ‘Chambers’s
Edinburgh Journal,’ 1838, will find these two capital stories, the one
in No. 25, the other in No. 19. A good many years later there was an
excellent bit about a stork brought home from the London Docks in a
cab—about 1855.

=951. The Abstraction.= In ‘Hood’s Comic Annual for 1833.’

Many more readings may be found in these annuals by anyone who can
disinter them.

=952. A Fearful Rebuke.=

=953. Through the Telescope.=

These two are in ‘Queer People,’ vol. i. Translated from the Swedish.
(Allen)

=954. The Baby with Two Grandfathers.= From ‘Mary Barton.’ (See No. 551.)

=955. Lady Dumbleton’s Pig.= Christmas Number ‘Monthly Packet.’

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




INDEX.


  Abbey by the Sea, the, 66

  Abbot, the, 434

  Abstraction, the, 951

  Across the Pampas, 732

  Acts of the Deacons, 315

  Address to Women, 635

  Adventurous Voyage of the ‘Polly,’ the, 164

  Afloat, 593

  Against the Stream, 485

  Agathos, 336

  Alfgar the Dane, 382

  Alice in Wonderland, 582

  All the Russias, 686

  Alone among the Zulus, 676

  Alone in Crowds, 110

  Ambition of Kate Hicks, 87

  Among the Stars, 849

  Andersen’s Fairy Tales, 578

  ‘Anon, Anon, Sir,’ Scene, 919

  Anson’s Voyages, 733

  Apples and Oranges, 840

  Apple Tree, 15

  Arabian Nights, 581

  Armourer’s Prentices, 421

  Around and about Old England, 737

  Ascott Hope’s Tales, 134

  Assyria, 322

  Atalanta, 882

  Aunt Charlotte’s Histories, 760-66

  Aunt Judy’s Tales, 221

  Aunt Judy’s Letters, 222

  Aunt Kezia’s Will, 595

  Aunt Sally’s History, 223

  Australia, 715

  Austria, 711

  Autocrat of the Nursery, the, 204


  Babylonia, 323

  Babylonian Life and History, 330

  Baby’s Album, 2

  Baby’s Prayerbook, 60

  Baby with Two Grandfathers, the, 954

  Ballads, 911

  Ballantyne’s Tales, 158

  Banner of Faith, 886

  Barbara Fritchie, 902

  Bear and Forbear, 112

  Bear, the, and the Goblin, 899

  Bearing the Yoke, 616

  Beautiful Face, the, 53, 356

  Bede’s Charity, 621

  Been in the Omnibus, 945

  Beleaguered City, a, 360

  Bells of Botreaux, 907

  Benedicite, 270

  Ben Sylvester’s Word, 55, 145

  Betrothed, the, 390

  Beyond the Himalayas, 171

  Bewitched Boots, the, 947

  Bilihild, 370

  Biographies of Good Women, 803

  Birds’ Nests and Eggs, 832

  Bird Songs and Bird Pictures, 833

  Birthday, 183

  Bits of Talk on Home Matters, 644

  Black and White, 660

  Black Coppice, the, 632

  Black Poodle, 938

  Blind Man’s Holiday, 232

  Blue Ribbons, the, 80, 503

  Book of Golden Deeds, 730

  Book of Worthies, 802

  Botany Reading Books, 837

  Boy Bishop, 409

  Boys, 261

  Boys and Girls, 201

  Boy’s Own Paper, 879

  Boy with an Idea, 138

  Brave Dame Mary, 452

  Brave Days of Old, 725

  Brave Men of Eyam, 462

  Bride Picotée, 523

  Bright Farthing, 33

  Broken Walls, the, 285

  Brothers in Arms, 489

  Brough Bells, 898

  Bully Brindle, 19

  Burnt Out, 594

  By Fire and Sword, 502

  By Northern Seas, 573

  Byewords, 574


  Caged Lion, the, 148, 410

  Cairnforth and Sons, 524

  Calf Reared on Sawdust, 944

  Camp Fire and the Wigwam, the, 127

  Camp of Refuge, 386

  Camp on the Severn, 378

  Carbridges, the, 532

  Carry’s Rose, 237

  Carved Cartoon, 84, 461

  Castaways in the Wilds of Borneo, the, 173

  Cassell’s Family Magazine, 890

  Castle Blair, 224

  Castle Builders, 256

  Castle Dangerous, 398

  Cat and her Cousins, 827

  Catharine and Crawfurd Tait, 653

  Cawnpore, 774

  Champion of Odin, 384

  Chaplet of Pearls, 497

  Chapters on the Te Deum, 279

  Charge of the Light Brigade, 910

  Charles Harvey’s Difficulties, 269

  Chats about Germany, 688

  Chatterbox, 875

  Cheap Jack, 45

  Child Life in Chinese Homes, 701

  Children of Africa, the, 702

  Children of the Church, 252, 274

  Children of the New Forest, 458

  Children’s Album, 1

  Children of Westminster Abbey, 769

  Children on the Plains, the, 72

  Children’s Pictorial, 872

  Child’s Pilgrimage, the, 359

  Child Samuel, the, 292

  Child’s Companion, 874

  Chimney Corner, 639

  Chips from the Earth’s Crust, 856

  Christmas Mummers, the, 26

  Christmas Tale, 931

  Christopher, 518

  Chosen People, 287

  Church Doctrine and Bible Truths, 859

  Church Echoes, 264

  Church History (Crake), 814

  Church History (Neale), 810

  Church History, Student’s (Smith), 816

  Citizen Reader, 773

  City Violet, 50

  Clare Avery, 437

  Clare Saville, 483

  Clary’s Confirmation, 255

  Cobden, Life of, 783

  Colonel’s Fall, the, 948

  Combatants, the, 343

  Coming, 357

  Conquering and to Conquer, 369

  Constant Prince, 491

  Copsley Annals, 97, 613

  Coral Magazine, the, 894

  Cottage Next Door, 601

  Countess Kate and Stokesley Secret, 205

  Country Maidens, 560

  Courage and Cowards, 203

  Crofton Boys, the, 135

  Crocodile King, 912

  Cruise of the ‘Bonny Kate,’ 439

  Cruise of Ulysses and his Men, 515

  Cushions and Corners, 231


  Daddy Dick, 619

  Daddy Darwin’s Dovecote, 218

  Daisy Chain, 539

  Dandy, 54

  Daniel O’Rourke’s Journey to the Moon, 934

  Daniel, Statesman and Prophet, 309

  Danvers Papers, 468

  Daring and Doing, 726

  Dark River, 341

  Daughter of the Regiment, 73

  David’s Life as seen in the Psalms, 293

  Dawn of Day, 881

  Decima’s Promise, 185

  Denmark, 707

  Denmark, Story of, 745

  Devon Boys, 169

  Diamond Rose, the, 564

  Diary of Kitty Trevelyan, 477

  Dickens, Life of Charles, 776

  Distant Hills, 339

  Discovery of the Colorado, 926

  Distressed Travellers, the, 914

  Dog and his Cousins, 828

  Dog’s Mission, a, 590

  Dora and Nora, 236

  Dora, Sister, Life of, 793

  Dorothy Forster, 472

  Dorothy’s Daughters, 563

  Dorothy’s Venture, 456

  Dove in the Eagle’s Nest, 492

  Down the Snow Stairs, 589

  Draytons and the Davenants, 448

  Dr. Ox’s Experiment, 143

  Dust Ho!, 672


  Earl Hubert’s Daughter, 394

  Earl Printer, the, 418

  Earl’s Daughter, 544

  Early English Voyagers, 703

  Earnest Appeal to Mothers, 636

  Earth’s Many Voices, 352

  Earth to the Moon, the, 141

  Eastern Manners and Customs, 321

  Eastern Wonderland, the, 695

  Edgeworth’s Tales, 225

  Edwy the Fair, 381

  Effie and her Ayah, 674

  Egypt, 324, 706

  Egypt and Nubia, 739

  Egyptian Wanderers, 367

  Eighteen Centuries of Church History, 811

  Eldad the Pilgrim, 311

  Elder Sister, an, 664, 795

  Elephant, 917

  Elisha the Prophet, 304

  Ella’s Mistake, 202

  Elly’s Choice, 200

  Emilia Wyndham, 562

  Empty House, an, 620

  Enchanted Sledge, the, 950

  Engine-driving Life, 852

  England, 748, 753

  England, Lectures on History of, 767

  English Church History, 815, 818

  English Squire, an, 557

  Ephrem and Helah, 312

  Epochs of Church History, 817

  Eric’s Grave, 927

  Espérance, 495

  Exiles of the Cevenna, 374

  Exodus and Wanderings in the Wilderness, the, 296

  Experience of Life, 547


  Fair Maid of Perth, 408

  Fairy Book, 576

  Fairy Legends of the South of Ireland, 585

  Fall of Jerusalem, the, 317

  Fanny’s Doll, 12

  Fanny Sylvester, 18

  Farm of Aptonga, the, 377

  Fate of the ‘Black Swan,’ 121

  Father Phim, 233

  Fearful Rebuke, a, 952

  Feats on the Fiord, 68

  Few Good Women, a, 806

  Few Words to Mothers, 637

  Field, Life of Bishop, 670

  Final Reckoning, the, 170

  Five Pounds Reward, 211

  Five Thousand Pounds, 631

  Five Weeks in a Balloon, 142

  Followers of the Lord, 363

  Follow the Leader, 136

  Footsteps in the Forest, 129

  For and Against, 416

  For Faith and Fatherland, 496

  For Half-a-Crown, 114, 628

  For Queen and King, 440

  For the Master’s Sake, 430

  For Fortune and Glory, 151

  Fortunes of Hassan, 122

  Fortunes of Nigel, 441

  Four Winds Farm, 588

  France, 708, 749

  Franklin, Life of, 782

  Frank Redcliffe, 174

  Frank’s Debt, 146

  French Prisoners, 131

  Friarswood Post Office, 90

  Friends till Death, 622

  Froggy’s Little Brother, 48

  From Log Cabin to White House, 799

  From over the Water, 520

  From Tan Yard to White House, 800


  Gabriel Vaughan, 567

  Gate of Paradise, the, 349

  Gaudentius, 365

  Gentleman Jim, 558

  George Nidiver, 900

  George the Triller, 906

  Germany, 705, 750

  Gertrude, 548

  Ghost of Greythorn Manor, the, 69

  Ghost at Fantford, the, 932

  Giant Killer, the, 111

  Giants and How to Fight Them, the, 347

  Girls, 262

  Girls of Flaxby, 92

  Girl’s Own Paper, 880

  Glimpses of Maori Land, 682

  Glimpses of South America, 692

  Godmother’s Whim, 31

  Golden Gorse, 23

  Golden Horse Shoes, 402

  Golden Thread, 67, 354

  Goldhanger Woods, 99

  Good King Wenceslas, 487

  Good Old Days, 432

  Good Ship Barbara, the, 123

  Good Words, 891

  Gordon, General, Life of, 775

  Gospeller, the, 887

  Gospel Missionary, 893

  Gospel of the Childhood, 314

  Gospel Story, 313

  Gran, 630

  Grannie’s Wardrobe, 34

  Great Orion, the, 163

  Great Treason, a, 479

  Great Waterfalls, 718

  Greece, 712, 754

  Greek Cities, 325

  Greek Hero Stories, 513

  Grey House on the Hill, the, 88

  Griffinhoof, 525

  Grimm’s Fairy Tales, 577

  Grumble, 182

  Guide, Philosopher, and Friend, 533


  Half-hours at Mothers’ Meetings, 638

  Hanbury Mills, 536

  Handel, Life of, 784

  Hans Brinker, or the Silver Skates, 81

  Harold, 385

  Harriet and her Sister, 37

  Harry and Archie, 149, 254

  Harry’s Discipline, 603

  Havelock, Life of, 779

  Heart Chords, 869

  Heartsease, 538

  Heart Service, 212

  Heavy Sixpence, the, 24

  Heir of Redclyffe, 537

  Helena’s Household, 364

  Helmsman of Lake Erie, 928

  Helpful Sam, 52

  Henrietta’s Wish, 194

  Her Majesty’s Bear, 431

  Herb of the Field, 839

  Hereward, the Last of the English, 387

  Hermy, the Story of a Little Girl, 177

  Hero, A: Philip’s Book, 159

  Heroes, 510

  Heroes of Asgard, 514

  Heroes of Hebrew History, 305

  Heroes of the Arctic and their Adventures, 731

  Heroine of a Basket Van, the, 626

  Heroes of the Indian Empire, 807

  Heroism and Adventure, 728

  Her Title of Honour, 534

  Hidden Homes, 831

  High and Lowly, 627

  Hill of the Fairy Calf, 936

  History of the Kingdom of Judah, the, 294

  History of the Prayer-Book, 271

  History of the Early Church, 808

  Holland, 746

  Holy Living and Dying, 861

  Home and School, 214

  Homes Made and Marred, 623

  Homes of the Birds, 834

  Homes under the Ground, 845

  Homes Without Hands, 830

  Home Workers for Foreign Missions, 659

  Hope of the Katzekopfs, 579

  Household of Sir Thomas More, the, 422

  Household Theology, 867

  House of Israel, 283

  House of the Little Wizard, the, 98

  How they were Caught in a Trap, 484

  How to be Well, 647

  Huc’s Life and Travels in Tartary, 738

  Humboldt’s Life, 788

  Hurricane in the West Indies, 920


  Iceland, 747

  Idle Harry, 13

  I must Keep the Chimes Going, 89

  In all Time of our Tribulation, 399

  Incident in the Pacific, 921

  Innocent, an, 610

  In Quest of Gold, 137

  In the Bush and on the Trail, 167

  In the Golden Days, 464

  In the Land of the Bear, the Moose, and the Beaver, 166

  In the Marsh, 186

  In the Olden Time, 494

  In the Polar Regions, 697

  In the Temperate Regions, 698

  In the Tropical Regions, 699

  In Time of War, 509

  Ireland, History of, 758

  Isabeau’s Hero, 501

  Isoult Barry, 429

  Island Queen, the, 119

  Israel under Joshua and the Judges, 297

  Israel under Samuel, Saul, and David, 298

  Israel and Judah, from Solomon to Ahab, 299

  Israel and Judah, from Ahab to the Decline of the Two Kingdoms, 300

  Israel and Judah, from Joash to Zedekiah, 301

  It’s his Way, 62

  Ivanhoe, 392

  Ivo and Verena, 85


  Jackanapes, 153

  Janet’s Home, 553

  Jan of the Mill, 217

  Japan, 709

  Jasmine Lee, 565

  Jeanie Gordon, 257

  Jerusalem and its Environs, 334

  Jenny and the Insects, 836

  John de Wickliffe, 405

  John Inglesant, 449

  Jolly Fellowship, a, 719

  Journal of Lady Beatrix Graham, 447

  Journey Home, 345

  Judas Maccabæus, 310

  Judæa and her Rulers, 307

  Judged by Appearances, 445


  Kane, Dr., Life of, 787

  Katharine Ashton, 545

  Keeping the Vow, 550

  Kenilworth, 433

  Kenneth, 506

  Kingdom of Judah, 284

  King of a Day, 490

  King Robert of Sicily, 904

  Kingsley, Charles, Life of, 790

  King’s Namesake, 450

  Kingston’s Tales, 157

  Klatsassan, 683

  Knevets, the, 423

  Knight’s Ransom, the, 389


  Laddie, 596

  Lady, the, and the Pie, 918

  Lady Betty, 473

  Lady Betty’s Governess, 442

  Lady Brassey’s Voyage in ‘Sunbeam,’ 735

  Lady Dumbleton’s Pig, 955

  Lady of the Lake, 424

  Lady Sybil’s Choice, 388

  Lake Regions of Central Africa, 172

  Lamb’s Tales from Shakespeare, 438

  Lances of Lynwood, 403

  Land of the Pyramids, 694

  Land of Temples, 690

  Laneton Parsonage, 180, 245, 259

  Langdales of Langdale End, 176

  Langley Adventures, 29

  Langley Lads and Lasses, 28, 93

  Langley Little Ones, 5

  Langley School, 27

  Lapsed, not Lost, 366

  Last of the Barons, 417

  Last of the Cavaliers, 466

  Last Years of our Lord’s Ministry, 860

  Launch of the Victory, 238

  Lazar House of Leros, the, 376

  Leal Light Heart, a, 526

  Lectures on Health, 646

  Legend of Knock Grafton, 935

  Legend of Montrose, 446

  Leila, or the Island, 74

  Leisure Hour, 888

  Lent Legends, 362

  Leonard the Lion Heart, 14

  Lessons taught by Dumb Animals, 835

  Letters from an Unknown Friend, 280, 634

  Letters from Egypt, 704

  Lifeboat, the, and other Poems, 895

  Life of Henrietta Robertson, 662

  Light of Conscience, the, 858

  Light Princess, the, 586

  Lights and Shadows of Church History, 819

  Like his own Daughter, 530

  Lincoln, Abraham, Life of, 780

  Linen-room Window, 241

  Lion Battalion, 21, 604

  Lionel Lincoln, 480

  Little Alice and her Sister, 192

  Little Blue Lady, 499

  Little Brown Girl, 188

  Little Camp on Eagle Hill, 251

  Little Duke, 147, 488

  Little Folks, 876

  Little Hinges, 76

  Little Jeanneton’s Work, 106

  Little Lame Prince, the, 587

  Little Lives and a Great Love, 51

  Little Lucy’s Wonderful Globe, 700

  Little May and her friend Conscience, 56

  Little Meg’s Children, 49, 605

  Little Men and Little Women, 7

  Little One’s Own Picture Paper, 870

  Little Susy’s Six Birthdays, 17

  Little Rosa, 70

  Little Step-daughter, a, 109

  Little Tija, 675

  Livingstone, Life of, 781

  Lob Lie by the Fire, 215

  Lord Mayor, 406

  Lord of the Isles, 397

  Lord of the Forest, 355

  Lord of the Marches, 407

  Loss of the ‘Birkenhead,’ 905

  Lost in Egypt, 79

  Lost in the Backwoods, 130

  Lost Trail, 128

  Louie White’s Hop-picking, 20

  Lowder, Charles, Life of, 791

  Lucia’s Marriage, 375

  Lucy and Christian Wainwright, 531

  Lucy’s Campaign, 474

  Lutaniste of St. Jacobi’s, 522


  Madam How and Lady Why, 850

  Madeleine, 566

  Mademoiselle Mori, 508

  Maggie Preece, 260

  Magnum Bonum, 543

  Magpie’s Nest, the, 71

  Maiden of our Own Day, a, 569

  Maidens’ Lodge, 469

  Making of the Home, the, 649

  Malvern Chase, 419

  Man on the Top of the Ark, 353, 652

  Margery’s Son, 414

  Mark Willis, 175

  Marmion, 425

  Marty and the Mite Boxes, 105

  Mary and Florence, 46

  Mary Barton, 551, 658

  Mary Powell, 444

  Mary’s Ark, 923

  Masterman Ready, 118

  Master Missionaries, 673

  Max Krömer, 78, 505

  May Cunningham’s Trial, 227

  Meg’s Mistake, 599

  Michael the Chorister, 32

  Millar, a Mollar, 11

  Mine Own People, 535

  Miss Angelina, 3

  Miss Fenwick’s Failures, 178

  Miss Kilmansegg, 915

  Mission Work in British Guiana, 680

  Mistress Margery, 412

  Mistress Mary, 235

  Missy and Master, 25

  Mitslav, 371

  Moorland Cottage, the, 552

  More, Hannah, Life of, 801

  Mother Molly, 481

  Mother Church, the, 809

  Mount Sinai and Petra, 328

  Mrs. Blackett’s Story, 614

  Mr. Burke’s Nieces, 75

  Mrs. Gaskell’s Tales, 654-58

  Mrs. Poynter’s Missionary Box, 677

  Mutiny on the ‘Albatross,’ 154

  My Great Aunt’s Cat, 100

  My Little Patient, 612

  My Lonely Lassie, 527

  Mysterious Island, the, 140

  My Two Years in an Indian Mission, 678

  My Sunday Friend, 877


  Narcissus, 368

  Nations Around, 290

  Nature’s Wonders, 854

  Near Relation, a, 556

  Ned in the Blockhouse, 124

  Ned on the River, 126

  Ned in the Woods, 125

  Nelson, Life of, 797

  Net, the, 892

  New Ground, 668

  New Honours, 234

  New Zealand, 691

  Nightingale, Florence, Life of, 778

  Night of Terror, a, 930

  Nimpo’s Troubles, 108

  Nimrod Nunn, 155

  Nineveh and its History, 329

  Nine Years Old, 191

  Noble Life, a, 549

  Northope Cave, 63

  Noble Mercer, the, 897

  North Wind and Sunshine, 210

  Norway, Story of, 742

  Notable Workers in Humble Life, 804

  Not for Him, 400

  Number Thirteen, 379

  Number One; Brighton Street, 277


  Oberlin, Life of, 796

  Oak Staircase, the, 82, 467

  Oldbury, 554

  Old-fashioned Fairy Tales, 580

  Old Garden Door, the, 42

  Old Greek Stories, 516

  Old House in the Square, 209

  Old Man’s Home, 340

  Old Sow, the, 946

  On Angels’ Wings, 65

  On Board the ‘Esmeralda,’ 152

  One of a Covey, 197

  One Year, 555

  On Honour’s Roll, 727

  Only a Tramp, 275

  Our Dogs, 823

  Our Ethel, 6

  Our Maoris, 665

  Our Mother Church, 273

  Our Navvies, 685

  Outdoor Common Birds, 822


  Pairing Time Anticipated, 913

  Pamela’s Bequest, 592

  Parables from Nature, 351

  Parables of Our Lord, 281

  Parish Magazine, 885

  Pat, 228

  Patz and Putz, 9

  Paul Howard’s Captivity, 161

  Paul Revere’s Ride, 901

  Pay your Debt, 949

  Peasant Boy Philosopher, 805

  Peep Behind the Scenes, 107

  Peeps into China, 696

  Peggy and other Tales, 86

  Penny Post, 883

  Peril and Adventure, 723

  Perils of the Deep, 722

  Persia, 326

  Personal Religion, 865

  Peru, 714

  Peveril of the Peak, 463

  Phantom Picture, the, 239

  Philip Augustus, 393

  Phil’s Mother, 199

  Pickle and his Page Boy, 30, 150

  Pictures of Cottage Life, 600

  Pictures of the Heavens, 847

  Pigeon Pie, the, 453

  Pilgrim’s Progress, 335

  Pillars of the House, 541

  Pink Silk Handkerchief, 91

  Pioneers and Founders, 661

  Pirates’ Creek, 156

  Plain Church Teaching, 863

  Plain Words, 642, 857

  Platelayer, the, 896

  Playing with Fire, 16

  Polly Spanker’s Green Feather, 94

  Population of an Old Pear Tree, 820

  Popular Natural History, Chapters on, 821

  Portugal, History of, 757

  Prayer-Book Packet, 278

  Prentice Hugh, 396

  Prince and Page, 395

  Prince and Pauper, 426

  Prisoner’s Daughter, 482

  Prize, 873

  Prophet Daniel Explained, the, 288

  Promise Kept, a, 572, 686

  P’s and Q’s, 193

  Psalms, Plain Commentary on, 320

  Pursuit of Holiness, 866


  Quack, Quack, 8

  Quay of the Dioscuri, 373

  Queen of the Dentists, the, 941

  Quiver, 889


  Rab and his Friends, 924

  Railroad Children, 35

  Railway Garden, a, 629

  Ramble round France, 693

  Rambles in Search of Wild Flowers, 838

  Readings for the Aged, 862

  Real Stories from Many Lands, 721

  Recent Discoveries on the Temple Hill, 331

  Red and White, 413

  Redgauntlet, 476

  Regent Rosalind, 198

  Revellers, the, 344

  Rhoda’s Reward, 113

  Richard Nelson, 268

  Ride to Khiva, 736

  Rival Heirs, 383

  Road to the North Pole, 720

  Robert Ord’s Atonement, 561

  Robinson Crusoe, 116

  Robin Tremayne, 428

  Rob Roy, 471

  Rocky Island, 337

  Rome, 755

  Rosamond Fane, 457

  Rosamond Ferrars, 187

  Rosebud, the, 871

  Round Africa, 689

  Rudder Grange, 559

  Rufus, 521

  Runaway, 189

  Russia, 710

  Ruthieston, 258


  Saltash Story, a, 929

  Salt, Sir Titus, Life of, 777

  Scapegrace Dick, 165, 460

  Scenes in a Children’s Hospital, 606

  Schönberg-Cotta Family, 493

  School-boy Baronet, the, 230

  Science Gleanings, 855

  Scotland, History of, 759

  Scripture Half-hour at Mothers’ Meetings, 643

  Sea Fights and Land Battles, 729

  Sea Monsters and Sea Birds, 842

  Seal, the, 263

  Second Year in Palestine, a, 333

  Secret of a Ball of Wool, 36

  Seeketh not her Own, 500, 625

  Self Conquest, 104

  Sexton’s Hero, the, 925

  Shadow of the Cross, 338

  Shaftesbury, Life of the Earl of, 792

  Short Stories for Mothers’ Meetings, 597

  Short Words for Long Evenings, 640

  Sidney Grey, 229

  Siege of Lichfield, 443

  Silverthorns, 240

  Simple Readings on the Minor Prophets, 306

  Sinai, 327

  Sintram, 358

  Sir Humphrey Gilbert, 903

  Sir Richard Grenville, 908

  Six Cushions, 206

  Sketches of Jewish Life, 302

  Sketches of Sarawak, 681

  Smuts and Diamonds, 22

  Snowball Society, 213

  Snowdrop’s Eggs, 38

  Social Economy Reading Book, 650

  Song of the Shirt, 909

  Songs of Animal Life, 824

  Sowing and Sewing, 95

  Spain, 716, 744, 751, 756

  Star in the Dust Heap, 47

  Star Lessons, 846

  Star out of Jacob, 286

  Steam House, 144

  Stedfast Woman, 528

  Stephenson, Life of, 786

  St. George and St. Michael, 451

  Stories and Lessons on the Catechism, 243

  Stories and Lessons on the Collects, 266

  Stories and Teaching on the Litany, 276

  Stories from Heathen Mythology, 512

  Stories of Invention, 853

  Stories of the Days of King Arthur, 380

  Stories of Youth and Childhood, 96

  Stories on the Catechism, 244

  Stories on the Christian Year, 267

  Stories on the Commandments, 247

  Stories on my Duty to God, 248

  Stories on my Duty to my Neighbour, 249

  Stories on the Lord’s Prayer, 250

  Storm of Life, the, 609

  Stormy Life, 415

  Story for the Schoolroom, a, 242

  Story of a Fellow-Soldier, the, 663, 794

  Story of a Happy Home, 219

  Story of a Needle, 58

  Story of a Short Life, 216

  Story of Russia, 741

  Story of Salvation, the, 318

  Story of the Crusades, 768

  Story of the Lost Emerald, the, 591

  Story of the Red Cross Knight, the, 346

  St. Paul, 316

  Straightforward, 684

  Straight to the Mark, 160

  Studies for Stories, 208

  Studies on the Benedicite, 272

  Sue and I, 220

  Sunday Echoes in Week-day Hours, 265

  Sun, Moon, and Stars, 848

  Sunshine, 878

  Susan Pascoe’s Temptation, 103

  Sweden and Norway, 717

  Sweden, 752

  Sweet William, 181

  Swiss Family Robinson, 117

  Switzerland, Story of, 743


  Tabernacle, its Priests and Services, the, 291

  Tales for Me to Read to Myself, 4

  Tales for Mission Rooms, 598

  Tales from Chaucer, 404

  Tales illustrating Church History, 372

  Tales illustrative of the Apostles’ Creed, 246

  Tales of the Bush, 618

  Talisman, the, 391

  Talks about the Laws, 772

  Talks with Uncle Richard about Wild Animals, 826

  Tangled Web, a, 420

  Tanglewood Tales, 511

  Tappy’s Chicks, 829

  Teachings for the Little Ones on the Catechism, 253

  Temple, its Ministry and Services, 303

  Ten Years among the Coloured Folk, 671

  Ten Years in Melanesia, 679

  Third Standard, the, 39

  Thorn Fortress, the, 77, 498

  Three Martyrs of the Nineteenth Century, 666

  Three Stories for Working Girls, 115

  Through Rough Waters, 504

  Through the Looking-glass, 583

  Through the Telescope, 953

  Through Trial to Triumph, 570

  Till the Doctor Comes, 648

  Tim’s Basket, 57

  Tip Cat, 226

  Tom Brown’s Schooldays, 133

  Tom Tumbletoes and the Cow, 939

  Tower of London (Ainsworth), 427

  Tower of London, Stories of, 770

  Tracts on Church Principles, 864

  Travels of Two Kits, 470

  Treasure Island, 132

  Treasury of the Psalms, 319

  Trial, the, 540

  Tried and True, 615

  Triumphs of the Cross, 361

  Trixy, 207

  True Gold, 602

  Truth in Tale, 348

  Tumble-down Dick, 10

  Turner, Life of, 785

  Turning Points of English Church History, 813

  Turning Points of General Church History, 812

  Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea, 139

  Twilight of Life, 868

  Two Bulls, the, 943

  Two Christmas Stories, 624

  Two Guardians, the, 195

  Two of England’s Wars, 771

  Two Poor Old Women, 633

  Two Swords, the, 455

  Two Thousand Years Ago, 486

  Two Watches, the, 59

  Two Ways of Looking at it, 529

  Two Years in the Region of Icebergs, 740


  Uncle Henry’s Present, 43

  Uncle Ivan, 101

  Uncle Max, 575

  Under the Lilacs, 64

  Under the Storm, 454

  Under the Mendips, 465

  Unknown to History, 435

  Ursula, 546


  Valley Mill, the, 519

  Valour and Enterprise, 724

  Vantage-ground for Doing Good, a, 568

  Vast Army, 342

  Venables, Bishop, Life of, 669

  Vision of the Holy Child, 350


  Walks from Eden, 282

  Walrus, the, and the Carpenter, 916

  Wanderings of Æneas, 517

  Wanted, a Letter Carrier, 933

  Wars of the Jews, 308

  Washington, Life of, 798

  Watchers on the Longships, 611

  Water Babies, the, 584

  Waterton’s Wanderings, 734

  Waverley, 475

  Way of the Cross, the, 651

  Ways and Means in a Devonshire Village, 645

  Wee Willie Winkie, 607

  Well in the Desert, the, 401

  West Indies, 713

  Westward Ho!, 436

  What a Man Soweth, 608

  When I was a Little Girl, 190

  White Chapel, the, 83

  White Gipsy, the, 184

  White Rose of Langley, 411

  White Satin Shoes, 44

  White’s Selborne, 841

  Wider World, a, 667

  Wild Animals of the Bible, 844

  Wild Animals of the Tropics, 843

  Wild Thyme, 102

  Wilkie, Sir David, and his Works, 789

  Will’s Voyages, 162

  Wings and Stings, 61

  With the Birds, 825

  With Wolfe in Canada, 478

  Wolf, 40

  Wonderful Tune, the, 937

  Wood Cart and other Tales, the, 41

  Woodstock, 459

  Work-a-day World, 641

  World before the Flood, the, 295

  World’s Birthday, the, 289

  World’s Lumber Room, 851

  Wow Wow, 942

  Wreck of the ‘Magpie,’ 922

  Wynnes, the, 196


  Year in Palestine, a, 332

  York and a Lancaster Rose, 179

  Yorkshire Butcher, a, 940

  Young Breton Volunteers, 507

  Young Crusoe, the, 120

  Young Philistine, a, 571

  Young Stepmother, the, 542

  Young Six Foot, 617

  Youth’s Companion, 884

  Yussuf the Guide, 168

        _Spottiswoode & Co. Printers, New-street Square, London._




STORIES FOR THE YOUNG.


With Full-Page Illustrations by Mrs. ALLINGHAM, CRUIKSHANK, GORDON
BROWNE, and other eminent Artists.

Handsomely bound, price =5s.= each.

“Everything Mrs. Ewing writes is full of talent, and also full of
perception and common sense.”—SATURDAY REVIEW.

    =MRS. J. H. EWING’S A FLAT IRON FOR A FARTHING.=
    =MRS. J. H. EWING’S JAN OF THE WINDMILL.=
    =MRS. J. H. EWING’S SIX TO SIXTEEN.= A Story for Girls.
    =MRS. J. H. EWING’S THE BROWNIES=; and other Tales.
    =MRS. J. H. EWING’S LOB-LIE-BY-THE-FIRE.=
    =MRS. J. H. EWING’S MRS. OVERTHEWAY’S REMEMBRANCES.=
    =MRS. J. H. EWING’S WE AND THE WORLD.= A Story for Boys.
    =MRS. J. H. EWING’S A GREAT EMERGENCY=; and other Tales.
    =MRS. J. H. EWING’S MELCHIOR’S DREAM=; and other Tales.


THE FAIRY LIBRARY.

Consisting of “Hop o’ My Thumb,” “Puss in Boots,” “Cinderella,” and “Jack
and the Beanstalk.” With numerous Etchings by GEORGE CRUIKSHANK.

    =CAPTAIN MARRYAT’S MASTERMAN READY.= New Illustrated Edition,
    with 60 Original Woodcuts.

    =CAPTAIN MARRYAT’S THE SETTLERS IN CANADA.= New Edition, with
    Original Woodcuts.

    =CAPTAIN MARRYAT’S POOR JACK.= With 46 Illustrations. By
    CLARKSON STANFIELD, R.A., from the Original Wood Blocks.

    =MISS F. M. PEARD’S MOTHER MOLLY.=

    =MISS F. M. PEARD’S THROUGH ROUGH WATERS.=

    =MISS F. M. PEARD’S PRINCESS ALETHEA.=


THE SHILLING SERIES.

Fcp. 4to. double columns, Illustrated.

    =MRS. EWING’S A FLAT IRON FOR A FARTHING.=

    =MRS. EWING’S SIX TO SIXTEEN=: a Story for Girls.

    =MRS. EWING’S WE AND THE WORLD=: a Book for Boys.

    =MRS. EWING’S MRS. OVERTHEWAY’S REMEMBRANCES.=

    =MRS. EWING’S JAN OF THE WINDMILL.=

    =MRS. EWING’S A GREAT EMERGENCY=, and other Tales.

    =MRS. EWING’S BROWNIES=, and other Tales.

    =MRS. EWING’S MELCHIOR’S DREAM=, and other Tales.

    =MRS. GATTY’S PARABLES FROM NATURE.= Two Series. Each 1_s._ or
    One Vol. limp cloth, 3_s._

    =MISS PROCTER’S LEGENDS AND LYRICS.= Two Series. Each 1_s._ or
    One Vol. limp cloth, 3_s._

    =MISS SHAW’S HECTOR=: a Story for Young People.

        London: GEORGE BELL & SONS, 4 York Street, Covent Garden.




_SEVEN HUNDRED VOLUMES at 3s. 6d. or 5s. per Volume._

BOHN’S LIBRARIES,

CONTAINING

Standard Works of European Literature in the English Language.


“I may say in regard to all manner of books, Bohn’s Publication Series is
the usefullest thing I know.”—THOMAS CARLYLE.

“The respectable and sometimes excellent translations of Bohn’s
Library have done for literature what railroads have done for internal
intercourse.”—R. W. EMERSON.

“An important body of cheap literature, from which every living worker
in this country who draws strength from the past has reason to be
grateful.”—Professor HENRY MORLEY.

The attention of those forming Libraries is directed to the following
selected List of Standard Works.

    _ADAM SMITH’S WEALTH OF NATIONS._ 2 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _ADDISON’S WORKS._ 6 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _ANTONINUS, THE THOUGHTS OF M. AURELIUS._ 3_s._ 6_d._

    _BACON’S ESSAYS._ 3_s._ 6_d._

    _BOSWELL’S LIFE OF JOHNSON, AND TOUR IN THE HEBRIDES, &c._
    (NAPIER.) 6 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _BURKE’S WORKS._ 9 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _BURNEY’S_ (Mme. D’ARBLAY’S) _CECILIA_. 2 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._
    each.

    _BURNEY’S_ (Mme. D’ARBLAY’S) _EVELINA_. 3_s._ 6_d._

    _BURNS’S LIFE._ By LOCKHART. 3_s._ 6_d._

    _CERVANTES’ DON QUIXOTE._ 2 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _CHAUCER’S WORKS_ (Prof. SKEAT). 4 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _COLERIDGE’S WORKS._ 6 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _DANTE_ (CARY’S Translation). 3_s._ 6_d._

    _DEFOE’S WORKS._ 7 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _EMERSON’S WORKS._ 3 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._

    _FIELDING’S NOVELS._ 4 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ and 5_s._

    _GIBBON’S ROMAN EMPIRE._ 7 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _GOETHE’S WORKS._ 15 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _GOLDSMITH’S WORKS._ 5 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _HAWTHORNE’S WORKS._ 3 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _HAZLITT’S ESSAYS._ 6 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _HUMBOLDT’S COSMOS AND TRAVELS._ 8 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ and 5_s._

    _LESSING’S LAOKOON, &c._ 3_s._ 6_d._

    _LESSING’S DRAMATIC WORKS._ 2 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _MANZONI’S BETROTHED_ (I promessi Sposi). 5_s._

    _MILTON’S PROSE WORKS._ 5 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _MOLIÈRE’S DRAMATIC WORKS._ 3 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _PEPYS’S DIARY._ 4 vols. 5_s._ each.

    _PLUTARCH’S LIVES_ (New Translation by LONG and STEWART). 4
    vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _RANKE’S WORKS._ 5 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _RICHTER’S LEVANA_: Flower, Fruit, and Thorn Pieces. 2 vols.
    3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _SCHILLER’S WORKS._ 6 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

    _SPINOZA’S CHIEF WORKS._ 2 vols. 5_s._ each.

    _STAUNTON’S WORKS ON CHESS._ 4 vols. 5_s._ each.

    _VASARI’S LIVES OF THE PAINTERS_ (with New Appendix by Dr.
    RICHTER). 6 vols. 3_s._ 6_d._ each.

London: GEORGE BELL & SONS, York Street, Covent Garden.




GRIFFITH, FARRAN, & CO.’S

ECONOMICAL SCHOOL & CLUB LIBRARIES.


MESSRS. GRIFFITH, FARRAN, & CO. desire to call the attention of School
Masters and Mistresses, Superintendents, Clergymen, and others to their
new method of supplying cheap Libraries for Schools, as described below.

All the Books are of the most approved kind, and are thoroughly suitable
for the purpose. They are bound in a specially strong and simple style,
in plain cloth boards, so as not to require re-covering, and, in order to
meet the needs of the smaller as well as the larger Schools, are put up
in Assorted Sets at from =£1. 1s.= to =£5. 5s.= per Set.

These Libraries can be had from any local Bookseller; but, should any
difficulty be experienced in procuring them, Messrs. GRIFFITH, FARRAN, &
CO. will be happy to forward them direct, carriage paid, on receipt of
Cheque or Post Office Order for the amount.

⁂ _Specimen Copies of any of the Books will be sent post-free on receipt
of the published price in stamps._

    Library A.

    Containing Volumes of the value of _=£1 12 0=_          _=£1 1 0=_

    Library B.

    Containing Volumes of the value of _=£3  4 0=_ for      _=£2 2 0=_

    Library C.

    Containing Volumes of the value of _=£4 15 0=_ for      _=£3 3 0=_

    Library D.

    Containing Volumes of the value of _=£6  8 0=_ for      _=£4 4 0=_

    Library E.

    Containing Volumes of the value of _=£8  0 0=_ for      _=£5 5 0=_

_N.B.—The number of Books at any one price ordered for any Library is
immaterial, so long as the total of the published price of the total
Selection equals one of the specified amounts._

                    GRIFFITH, FARRAN, OKEDEN, & WELSH,
                      St. Paul’s Churchyard, London.




SEELEY & CO., ESSEX STREET, STRAND.


=CHURCH ECHOES=: a Tale Illustrative of the Daily Service of the Prayer
Book. By Mrs. CAREY BROCK, Author of “Sunday Echoes in Week-day Hours.”
Price 5_s._ cloth.

    “Will be found very useful in leading thoughtful young people
    to an intelligent use of their Prayer Book.”—GUARDIAN.

_By the same Author._

    CHANGES and CHANCES. 5_s._
    WORKING and WAITING. 5_s._
    MARGARET’S SECRET. 5_s._
    CHARITY HELSTONE. 5_s._
    MICHELINE. 5_s._
    MY FATHER’S HAND. 2_s._
    CHILDREN at HOME. 5_s._
    The RECTORY and the MANOR. 5_s._
    HOME MEMORIES. 5_s._
    The VIOLETS of MONTMARTRE. 5_s._
    DAME WYNTON. 3_s._ 6_d._
    ALMOST PERSUADED. 1_s._

=SUNDAY ECHOES IN WEEKDAY HOURS.= A Series of Illustrative Tales. Eight
Vols. 5_s._ each.

    1. The Collects.
    2. The Church Catechism.
    3. Journey of the Israelites.
    4. Scripture Characters.
    5. The Epistles and Gospels.
    6. The Parables.
    7. The Miracles.
    8. The Example of Christ.

=BY PROFESSOR CHURCH.=

    The COUNT of the SAXON SHORE. 5_s._
    STORIES of the MAGICIANS. 5_s._
    The STORIES of the ILIAD and ÆNEID. 1_s._ or 1_s._ 6_d._
    STORIES from LIVY. 5_s._
    The STORY of the PERSIAN WAR. 5_s._
    STORIES of the EAST, from HERODOTUS. 5_s._
    STORIES from the GREEK TRAGEDIANS. 5_s._
    The CHANTRY PRIEST of BARNET. 5_s._
    WITH the KING at OXFORD. 5_s._
    HEROES and KINGS. 1_s._ 6_d._
    STORIES from VIRGIL. 5_s._
    STORIES from HOMER. 5_s._
    The STORY of the LAST DAYS of JERUSALEM. 3_s._ 6_d._
    A TRAVELLER’S TRUE TALE, from LUCIAN. 3_s._ 6_d._
    ROMAN LIFE in the DAYS of CICERO. 5_s._

=TALES BY MRS. MARSHALL.=

    CONSTANTIA CAREW. 5_s._
    MEMORIES of TROUBLOUS TIMES. 5_s._
    The ROCHEMONTS. 5_s._
    LADY ALICE. 5_s._
    LIFE’S AFTERMATH. 5_s._
    A LILY AMONG THORNS. 5_s._
    HEIGHTS and VALLEYS. 5_s._
    HELEN’S DIARY. 5_s._
    CHRISTABEL KINGSCOTE. 5_s._
    The OLD GATEWAY. 5_s._
    BENVENUTA. 5_s._
    IN the EAST COUNTRY. 5_s._
    The MISTRESS of TAYNE COURT. 5_s._
    DOROTHY’S DAUGHTERS. 5_s._
    JOB SINGLETON’S HEIR. 5_s._
    JOANNA’S INHERITANCE. 5_s._
    NOWADAYS. 5_s._
    MRS. MAINWARING’S JOURNAL. 5_s._
    BROTHERS and SISTERS. 5_s._
    EDWARD’S WIFE. 5_s._
    VIOLET DOUGLAS. 5_s._
    MILLICENT LEGH. 5_s._
    IN COLSTON’S DAYS. 5_s._
    MRS. WILLOUGHBY’S OCTAVE. 5_s._
    UNDER the MENDIPS. 5_s._
    IN FOUR REIGNS. 5_s._

=TALES BY MISS WINCHESTER.=

    A NEST of SPARROWS. 5_s._
    A WAYSIDE SNOWDROP. 3_s._ 6_d._
    CHIRPS for the CHICKS. 2_s._ 6_d._
    A CRIPPLED ROBIN. 5_s._
    UNDER the SHIELD. 5_s._
    The CABIN on the BEACH. 5_s._
    A CITY VIOLET. 5_s._
    A SEA PEARL. 5_s._

=BY BISHOP WILBERFORCE.=

    AGATHOS. 6_d._, 1_s._, or 2_s._ 6_d._
    ROCKY ISLAND. 6_d._, 1_s._, or 2_s._ 6_d._

               London: SEELEY & CO., Essex Street, Strand.




MAGAZINES FOR EVERY HOME.


_NOTICE.—Messrs. CASSELL & COMPANY have the pleasure to announce that a_

New and Permanently Enlarged Series of

The Quiver,

FOR SUNDAY AND GENERAL READING,

Is commenced with the =First Part of the New Volume= (being the =November
Part=), the price remaining the same as heretofore, viz., SIXPENCE
Monthly. The quantity of letterpress will be =increased= from =64= to
=80= pages per month, and the Magazine will in addition be printed on
paper of superior quality specially manufactured for the purpose, in =new
Type= selected for its clear and legible character.


MONTHLY, _price =7d.=_

Cassell’s Magazine.

The large increase which has taken place this year in the already
enormous circulation of this Favourite Magazine shows its steady and
continued growth in popular favour. An exceptionally attractive Programme
has been arranged for the New Volume, commencing with the DECEMBER PART,
price =7d.=, a Prospectus of which can be procured from any bookseller,
or post free from the Publishers.


The brightest, prettiest, and most delightful Magazine for Children of
all ages is

Little Folks,

And the Publishers having now decided to =enlarge= this favourite
Magazine by giving additional pages of Illustrations and Letterpress
=without increase of price=, invite all to order the =January Part=,
price _=6d.=_, which will form the First Part of the =Enlarged Series=.


ENLARGEMENT OF

Cassell’s Saturday Journal

To 24 Pages Weekly, and Illustrated.

_ONE PENNY._

By means of this enlargement of =Cassell’s Saturday Journal= from =16= to
=24= pages Weekly, the Journal is placed AT THE HEAD of all periodicals
of its class. ⁂ _Also published in Monthly Parts, =6d.=_


NOTICE.—A CLASSIFIED CATALOGUE giving particulars of upwards of ONE
THOUSAND VOLUMES published by Messrs. CASSELL & COMPANY, ranging in price
from

THREEPENCE TO TWENTY-FIVE GUINEAS,

will be sent on request _post-free to any address_.

            CASSELL & COMPANY, LIMITED, Ludgate Hill, London;
                       and sold by all Booksellers.




T. NELSON & SONS’ BOOKS.


JUST PUBLISHED.

Tenth Edition.

=THE 19th CENTURY=: a History. The Times of Queen Victoria, &c. By ROBERT
MACKENZIE. Crown 8vo. 472 pages, cloth extra, price 5_s._

    _The issue of the Tenth Edition of this Popular History has
    been taken advantage of in order to make considerable additions
    to the work, bringing it down to the Present Day. It is now a
    Complete History of the Century down to the Jubilee Year of the
    Reign of Queen Victoria._

New Work by JOHN GIBSON.

=GREAT WATERFALLS, CATARACTS, AND GEYSERS.= Described and Illustrated. By
JOHN GIBSON, Natural History Department, Edinburgh Museum of Science and
Art; Author of “Chips from the Earth’s Crust,” “Science Gleanings in Many
Fields,” &c. With Thirty-two Illustrations. Post 8vo. cloth extra, price
2_s._ 6_d._

A Popular History of Ireland.

=HISTORY OF IRELAND.= By G. M. TOWLE. Post 8vo. cloth extra, 315 pages,
price 2_s._ 6_d._

    _Step by step the Author has traced the History of Ireland down
    to the Present Time, and we can now see how our cousins across
    the Atlantic view our great question of the day._

With Illustrations by BIRKET FOSTER.

=THE SHIPWRECK.= A Poem. By WILLIAM FALCONER. Illustrated by BIRKET
FOSTER. Post 8vo. cloth extra, price 3_s._; or gilt edges, 3_s._ 6_d._

    _This Edition contains a Facsimile of Falconer’s Log-Book,
    or Journal, of his Voyage from Philadelphia to Jamaica; also
    Chart, &c., now for the first time published._

=OUR SEA COAST HEROES=; or, Tales of Wreck and of Rescue by the Lifeboat
and Rocket. By ACHILLES DAUNT, Author of “Frank Redcliffe,” “With Pack
and Rifle in the Far South-West,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Post
8vo. cloth extra, price 2_s._ 6_d._

A Book for Young Men.

=MASTERS OF THE SITUATION=; or, Some Secrets of Success and Power. By
WILLIAM JAMES TILLEY, B.D. Post 8vo. cloth extra, 313 pages, 2_s._ 6_d._

    _An excellent book to put in the hands of a youth starting in
    life._

New Work by Rev. E. N. HOARE, M.A., Rector of Acrise, Kent, Author of
“Roe Carson’s Enemy,” &c.

=NOTABLE WORKERS IN HUMBLE LIFE=, containing Biographies of John Pound,
John Duncan, Robert Dick, Thomas Edward, John Ashworth, Thomas Cooper,
Robert Flockhart, and George Smith of Coalville. With Frontispiece. Post
8vo. cloth extra, 219 pages, price 2_s._

    With Six Finely-Coloured Plates, one being a Portrait of Her
    Majesty, and several Engravings.

=LIFE OF QUEEN VICTORIA.= A Book for Young People. Square 16mo. cloth
extra, 146 pages, price 1_s._ 6_d._

    _This Life of Queen Victoria gives a simple and connected
    account of her Personal History. The Story of the Queen’s own
    Life has been kept in the front all through, and in such a way
    as to allow her Character to reveal itself in her Actions and
    her Words._

With Eight Full-Page Illustrations.

=THE EMPEROR OF GERMANY, WILLIAM I.=: a Life Sketch. By ATHOL MAYHEW.
With Illustrations by R. CATON WOODVILLE. Post 8vo. cloth extra, price
1_s._ 6_d._

With numerous Illustrations from the “History of Peter the Great,” by
Professor BRUCKNER, of Dorpat.

=PETER THE GREAT.= By JOHN LOTHROP MOTLEY. Large fcp. 8vo. cloth extra,
1_s._

    _The Striking and Beautiful Illustrations which, in this
    volume, appear for the first time in an English work, have
    been reproduced with the utmost care and fidelity from the
    Originals._


FOR BOYS.

=EARLY ENGLISH VOYAGERS=; or, The Adventures and Discoveries of Drake,
Cavendish, and Dampier. Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth extra,
gilt edges, price 5_s._

=JACK HOOPER.= His Adventures at Sea and in South Africa. By VERNEY
LOVETT CAMERON, C.B., D.C.L., Commander Royal Navy; Author of “Across
Africa,” “Our Future Highway,” &c. With Twenty-three Full-page
Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, gilt edges, price 5_s._

=WITH PACK AND RIFLE IN THE FAR SOUTH-WEST.= Adventures in New Mexico,
Arizona, and Central America. By ACHILLES DAUNT, Author of “Frank
Redcliffe,” “In the Land of the Moose, the Bear, and the Beaver,” “The
Three Trappers,” &c. With 30 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, gilt
edges, price 5_s._

=BEYOND THE HIMALAYAS.= A Book for Boys. By JOHN GEDDIE, F.R.G.S., Author
of “The Lake Regions of Central Africa,” &c. With Nine Engravings. Post
8vo. price 3_s._ 6_d._

=FRANK REDCLIFFE.= A Story of Travel and Adventure in the Forests of
Venezuela. A Book for Boys. By ACHILLES DAUNT, Author of “The Three
Trappers,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Post 8vo. cloth extra, price
3_s._ 6_d._

=ADVENTUROUS BOAT VOYAGES.= By ROBERT RICHARDSON, Author of “Ralph’s Year
in Russia,” “Almost a Hero,” &c. With Fifteen Illustrations. Post 8vo.
cloth extra, price 3_s._


FOR GIRLS.

=NOBLE WOMEN OF OUR TIME.= By JOSEPH JOHNSON, Author of “Living in
Earnest,” &c. With Accounts of the Work of Misses De Broën, Whately,
Carpenter, F. R. Havergal, Macpherson, Sister Dora, &c. Post 8vo. cloth
extra, price 3_s._ 6_d._

=ADA AND GERTY=; or, Hand in Hand Heavenward. A Story of School Life. By
LOUISA M. GRAY. Post 8vo. cloth extra, gilt edges, price 3_s._ 6_d._

    _A touching story of two girls, giving an interesting account
    of their education and school experiences._

=CHANGED SCENES=; or, The Castle and the Cottage. By Lady HOPE, Author of
“Our Coffee House,” “A Maiden’s Work,” “Sunny Footsteps,” &c. Post 8vo.
cloth extra, price 2_s._ 6_d._

=SALOME=; or, “Let Patience have her Perfect Work.” By Mrs. EMMA
MARSHALL, Author of “Mrs. Haycock’s Chronicles,” &c. Post 8vo. cloth
extra, price 2_s._ 6_d._

=GEORGIE MERTON=; or, Only a Girl. By FLORENCE HARRINGTON. With
Illustrations. Post 8vo. cloth extra, price 2_s._

=WILLING TO BE USEFUL=; or, Principle and Duty Illustrated in the Story
of Edith Allison. With Plates. Post 8vo. cloth extra, price 2_s._

            ⁂ _Complete Catalogue Post-free on Application._

         THOMAS NELSON & SONS, 35 Paternoster Row, London, E.C.;
                         Edinburgh and New York.




J. MASTERS & CO.’S LIST OF POPULAR TALES.

=THREE MORE TALES= Nearly Ready. By A. M. F. PAGET, Author of “=Tales for
Me to Read to Myself=.” Small post 8vo. with Illustrations, 3_s._ 6_d._


By Miss STELLA AUSTIN.

_With Illustrations._

    =TOM THE HERO.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =MOTHER BUNCH.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =KENNETH’S CHILDREN.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =OTHER PEOPLE.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =GREAT GRANDMOTHER’S SHOES.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =OUR NEXT-DOOR NEIGHBOUR.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =PAT.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =UNCLE PHILIP.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =BEN CRAMER: WORKING JEWELLER.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =FOR OLD SAKE’S SAKE.= Small 8vo. 3_s._

    =RAGS AND TATTERS.= Sm. 8vo. 3_s._

    =STUMPS.= Square 16mo. 2_s._ 6_d._

    =SOMEBODY.= Square 16mo. 2_s._ 6_d._

    =WINGS.= Square 16mo. 6_d._; cloth, 1_s._

By Mrs. MITCHELL.

_With Illustrations._

    =GOLDEN HORSESHOES.= A Tale of the Time of Edward III. Cr. 8vo.
    5_s._

    =HER MAJESTY’S BEAR.= A Tale of the Time of Queen Elizabeth.
    Crown 8vo. 5_s._

    =THE DIAMOND RING.= Cr. 8vo. 5_s._

    =NORTON HALL.= Crown 8vo. 5_s._

    =THE LITTLE BLUE LADY=, and other Tales. Second Edition. Small
    8vo. 4_s._ 6_d._

    =THE BEAUTIFUL FACE.= Third Edition. Small 8vo. 4_s._ 6_d._

By Miss C. A. JONES.

    =LITTLE CAPTAIN DICK.= Small 8vo. 3_s._ _Illustrated._

    =LITTLE READY CRY.= Small 4to. 3_s._ 6_d._ _Illustrated._

    =OLD CRUMPET, THE SHOEMAKER.= A Tale of Two Missions. Small
    8vo. 2_s._ _Illustrated._

    =NOT QUITE A HEROINE.= Fcap. 8vo. 3_s._

    =STORIES FOR THE CHRISTIAN YEAR.= 8 vols. 2_s._ each.

    =STORIES ON THE CHURCH CATECHISM.= New edit. 4 vols. 2_s._
    6_d._ each.

By the Rev. E. MONRO.

    =SACRED ALLEGORIES.= Crown 8vo. with Eight Illustrations by J.
    D. COOPER, cloth, 7_s._ 6_d._; morocco, 16_s._ A Fcap. 8vo.
    Edition, in 2 vols. cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._ each vol.; or in 6
    Parts, limp cloth, 1_s._ each. An Illustration to each
    Allegory.

    =BASIL THE SCHOOLBOY; or, the Heir of Arundel.= A Story of
    School Life. Small 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =WALTER THE SCHOOLMASTER; or, Studies of Character in a Boys’
    School.= Fcap. 8vo. 3_s._

    =HARRY AND ARCHIE; or, First and Last Communion, and the Danger
    of Delay.= 1_s._ cloth.

    =NANNY, a Sequel to “Harry and Archie.”= 6_d._; cloth, 1_s._
    Bound together, 1_s._ 6_d._ cloth.

By Miss K. D. CORNISH.

_With Illustrations._

    =HOLIDAYS AT BRINNICOMBE.= Royal 16mo. 2_s._ 6_d._

    =PHŒBE’S POOL.= Royal 16mo. 2_s._

By the Rev. J. M. NEALE, D.D.

    =DUCHENIER; or, the Revolt of La Vendée.= Crown 8vo. 4_s._ 6_d._

    =THEODORA PHRANZA; or, the Fall of Constantinople.= Crown 8vo.
    6_s._

    =STORIES OF THE CRUSADES.= Fcap. 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =EVENINGS AT SACKVILLE COLLEGE.= 2_s._

    =SUNDAY AFTERNOONS AT AN ORPHANAGE.= 2_s._

By the Author of “The Chorister Brothers.”

    =RUFUS.= Crown 8vo. 4_s._ 6_d._

    =AULD FERNIE’S SON.= Cr. 8vo. 6_s._

    =THE CHORISTER BROTHERS.= Crown 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =THE INCUMBENT OF AXHILL. A Sequel to “The Chorister
    Brothers.”= Crown 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =THE CHILDREN OF THE CHAPEL.= Fcap. 8vo. 2_s._

    =MARK DENNIS; or, the Engine-Driver.= 18mo. 2_s._

              London: J. MASTERS & CO., 78 New Bond Street.




Oxford University Press.


_The Sale already exceeds_

=Three Quarters of a Million.=

=THE OXFORD BIBLE FOR TEACHERS=

IS NOW ISSUED in Twelve Sizes, with the Text arranged in each so as to
correspond page for page with all the others.

Seven Sizes are printed on best Rag-made Printing Paper, and vary in
price from =3s.= to =45s.=

Five Sizes are printed on thin opaque INDIA PAPER, and are EXTREMELY
LIGHT AND THIN. They vary in weight from 12½ ounces to 22 ounces, and in
price from =7s.= to =46s.=, NOT EXCEEDING AN INCH IN THICKNESS.

It contains supplementary HELPS TO THE STUDY OF THE BIBLE, including
Notes Analytical, Chronological, Historical, and Geographical; a Biblical
Index; Concordance; Dictionary of Scripture Proper Names; Maps; a
Compendium of Scripture Natural History, &c., which have been carefully
Revised and Enlarged from time to time by Dr. STUBBS, Bishop of Chester;
Dr. EDWIN PALMER, Archdeacon of Oxford; Dr. ANGUS, and other eminent
scholars. The scientific information was prepared under the supervision
of Professors ROLLESTON, WESTWOOD, LAWSON, and EARLE—names of the highest
authority in their several departments.

    =THE ARCHBISHOP OF YORK.=—“The notion of including in one
    volume all the helps that a clergyman or teacher would be
    likely to want for the study of the Bible has never been
    realised before with the same success.”

    =CANON LIDDON.=—“I have no hesitation in saying that it would
    have been difficult to arrange so much useful matter in a more
    useful way, or, so far as I have observed, with more accuracy,
    whether of detail or of general statement.”

CLARENDON PRESS ENGLISH BOOKS.

    =BACON.—ADVANCEMENT of LEARNING.= Edited by W. ALDIS WRIGHT,
    M.A. Second Edition. Price 4_s._ 6_d._

    =ADDISON.—SELECTIONS from PAPERS in the “SPECTATOR.”= With
    Notes. By T. ARNOLD, M.A. Second Edition. 4_s._ 6_d._

    =JOHNSON.—RASSELAS.= Edited with Introduction and Notes, by G.
    B. HILL, D.C.L., Editor of the Oxford Edition of “Boswell’s
    Life of Johnson.” Fcp. 8vo. limp, 2_s._ [_Just published._

    =STEELE.—SELECTIONS from the “TATLER,” “SPECTATOR,” and
    “GUARDIAN.”= Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by AUSTIN
    DOBSON. Ornamental vellum, 7_s._ 6_d._; cloth, 5_s._

    =BYRON.—CHILDE HAROLD.= Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by
    H. F. TOZER, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College. Cloth,
    3_s._ 6_d._; vellum, 5_s._

    =SCOTT.—LAY of the LAST MINSTREL.= Edited, with Introduction
    and Notes, by W. MINTO, M.A., Professor of Logic and English
    Literature in the Univ. of Aberdeen. Vellum, 3_s._ 6_d._

    =SHAKESPEARE.—SELECT PLAYS.= By W. G. CLARK, M.A., and W. ALDIS
    WRIGHT, M.A. Stiff covers. The Merchant of Venice, 1_s._;
    Hamlet, 2_s._ Richard the Second, 1_s._ 6_d._ Macbeth, 1_s._
    6_d._

    =Select Plays.= By W. A. WRIGHT, M.A. The Tempest, 1_s._ 6_d._;
    As You Like It, 1_s._ 6_d._; Julius Cæsar, 2_s._; Richard the
    Third, 2_s._ 6_d._; King Lear, 1_s._ 6_d._; A Midsummer Night’s
    Dream, 1_s._ 6_d._; Coriolanus, 2_s._ 6_d._; Henry the Fifth,
    2_s._; Twelfth Night, 1_s._ 6_d._; King John, 1_s._ 6_d._

“This edition is simply without a rival. None even comes second to
it.”—WESTMINSTER REVIEW.

        London: HENRY FROWDE, Oxford University Press Warehouse,
                            Amen Corner, E.C.




_JAMES NISBET & CO.’S NEW WORKS._


    =ST. PAUL IN ATHENS. The City and the Discourse.= By the Rev.
    J. R. MACDUFF, D.D. With Illustrations. Cr. 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =AUTOBIOGRAPHY AND OTHER MEMORIALS OF MARIA V. G. HAVERGAL=,
    Sister and Biographer of FRANCES RIDLEY HAVERGAL. Edited by
    Mrs. CRANE. With Portrait. Cr. 8vo. 6_s._

    =EMINENT WORKERS.= Some Distinguished Workers for Christ.
    By the Rev. A. W. MURRAY, Author of “Missions in Western
    Polynesia.” Crown 8vo. 5_s._

    =THREE FRIENDS OF GOD.= By FRANCES BEVAN, Author of “The Story
    of Wesley,” “Life of Wm. Farel,” &c. Cr. 8vo. 5_s._

    =THE FUGITIVES=; or, The Tyrant Queen of Madagascar. By Mr. R.
    M. BALLANTYNE. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 5_s._

    =DAPHNE’S DECISION=; or, Which shall it be? A Story for
    Children. By Mrs. EMMA MARSHALL. Illustrated. Cr. 8vo. 5_s._

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

    =MISTRESS MATCHETT’S MISTAKE.= A Very Old Story. With
    Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =THE STORY OF JOHN MARBECKE=: a Windsor Organist of 300 years
    ago. His Work and His Reward. Crown 8vo. 2_s._

    =MISS CON=; or, All those Girls. By Miss AGNES GIBERNE. With
    Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 5_s._

    =CROSS CORNERS.= By ANNA B. WARNER, Author of “The Blue Flag
    and the Cloth of Gold,” “The Melody of the 23rd Psalm.” With
    Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =NELLIE GRAHAM=; or, The Story of a Commonplace Woman. By ELLA
    STONE, Author of “Grace Murray.” Crown 8vo. 2_s._

    =THE LADS OF LUNDA.= By JESSIE M. E. SAXBY, Author of “Breakers
    Ahead,” “Stories of Shetland,” &c. With Illustrations. Crown
    8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

REVISED BY HER MAJESTY.

    =THE STORY OF THE LIFE OF THE PRINCE CONSORT.= Told for Boys
    and Girls. By the Rev. W. W. TULLOCH, B.D. Author of “The Story
    of the Life of Queen Victoria,” &c. Crown 8vo. gilt edges,
    3_s._ 6_d._

    =THE OLD VIOLIN=; or, Charity Hope’s Own Story. By EDITH C.
    KENYON, Author of “Jack’s Cousin Kate.” With Illustrations.
    Crown 8vo. 2_s._

    =WINNING HIS LAURELS=; or, The Boys of St. Raglan’s. By
    F. M. HOLMES, Author of “Jack Marston’s Anchor,” &c. With
    Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._

    =A NEW EXODUS=; or, The Exiles of the Zillerthal. A Story of
    the Protestants of the Tyrol. By CATHERINE RAY. Cr. 8vo. 3_s._
    6_d._

    =LOTTA’S LIFE MISTAKE.= By Mrs. EVERED POOLE. With
    Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 2_s._

                JAMES NISBET & CO., 21 Berners Street, W.




BLACKIE & SON’S

NEW BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG.

To be published in the course of the Season.


_Price Six Shillings each._

    =BONNIE PRINCE CHARLIE=: a Tale of Fontenoy and Culloden. By G.
    A. HENTY. Illustrated by Gordon Browne.

    =FOR THE TEMPLE=: a Tale of the Fall of Jerusalem. By G. A.
    HENTY. Illustrated by S. J. Solomon.

    =DICK O’ THE FENS=: a Romance of the Great East Swamp. By G.
    MANVILLE FENN. Illustrated by Frank Dadd.

_Price Five Shillings each._

    =IN THE REIGN OF TERROR=: the Adventures of a Westminster Boy.
    By G. A. HENTY. Illustrated by J. Schönberg.

    =ORANGE AND GREEN=: a Tale of the Boyne and Limerick. By G. A.
    HENTY. Illustrated by Gordon Browne.

    =MOTHER CAREY’S CHICKEN=: Her Voyage to the Unknown Isle. By G.
    MANVILLE FENN. Illustrated.

    =THE ROVER’S SECRET=: a Tale of the Pirate Cays and Lagoons of
    Cuba. By HARRY COLLINGWOOD. Illustrated by W. C. Symons.

    =GIRL NEIGHBOURS=; or, The Old Fashion and the New. By SARAH
    TYTLER. Illustrated by C. T. Garland.

_Price Three Shillings and Sixpence each._

    =MARGERY MERTON’S GIRLHOOD.= By ALICE CORKRAN. Illustrated by
    Gordon Browne.

    =SIR WALTER’S WARD=: a Tale of Mediæval Life. By WILLIAM
    EVERARD. Illustrated.

    =CHIVALRIC DAYS=: Stories of Courtesy and Courage in the Olden
    Times. By E. S. BROOKS. Illustrated by Gordon Browne.

    =THE BUBBLING TEAPOT=: a Wonder Story. By Mrs. LIZZIE W.
    CHAMPNEY. Illustrated by Walter Satterlee.

    =THE PRINCESS AND THE GOBLIN.= By GEORGE MACDONALD, LL.D.
    Illustrated by Arthur Hughes. New Edition.

    =THE PRINCESS AND CURDIE.= By GEORGE MACDONALD, LL.D.
    Illustrated by James Allen. New Edition.

    =STORIES OF OLD RENOWN=: Tales of Knights and Heroes. By ASCOTT
    R. HOPE. Illustrated by Gordon Browne. New Edition.

_Price Two Shillings and Sixpence each._

    =STURDY AND STRONG=; or, How George Andrews made his Way. By G.
    A. HENTY. Illustrated by Robert Fowler.

    =THE WAR OF THE AXE=; or, Adventures in South Africa. By J.
    PERCY GROVES. Illustrated by J. Schönberg.

    =GUTTA-PERCHA WILLIE, THE WORKING GENIUS.= By GEORGE MACDONALD,
    LL.D. Illustrated by Arthur Hughes. New Edition.

    =MISS WILLOWBURN’S OFFER.= By SARAH DOUDNEY. Illustrated by
    Robert Fowler.

    =THE STORIES OF WASA AND MENZIKOFF=: the Deliverer of Sweden
    and the Favourite of Czar Peter. Illustrated.

_Also Books at Two Shillings, Eighteenpence, One Shilling, Ninepence,
Sixpence, and Fourpence each, by HENRY FRITH, Miss MARY C. ROWSELL, Mrs.
E. J. LYSAGHT, and other popular Authors._

=⁂ Detailed Catalogue of BLACKIE & SON’S Books for Young Readers will be
sent post-free on application.=

              London: BLACKIE & SON, 49 and 50 Old Bailey.




SOCIETY for PROMOTING CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE.


NEW PUBLICATIONS.

_Three Shillings and Sixpence._

    =Adam Gorlake’s Will.= By C. E. M., Author of “The Valley Mill”
    &c. With 4 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth boards._

    =Promises and Vows.= By HELEN SHIPTON, Author of “Christopher”
    &c. With 4 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth boards._

_Three Shillings._

    =Tre, Pol, and Pen.= By F. FRANKFORT MOORE, Author of “The
    Great Orion” &c. With 4 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth
    boards._

    =Kathleen.= By C. SELBY LOWNDES. With 4 page Woodcuts. Crown
    8vo. _Cloth boards._

    =Queer Chums=: Being a Narrative of a Midshipman’s Adventures
    and Escapes in Eighteen hundred and — war time. By CHARLES H.
    EDEN, Author of “Australia’s Heroes” &c. With 4 page Woodcuts.
    _Cloth boards._

    =Domesday Book.= A Popular Account of the Exchequer Manuscript
    so called, with Notes of the principal parts of general
    interest which it contains. By WALTER DE GREY BIRCH, F.S.A.
    Fcp. 8vo. _Cloth boards._

    =Martyrs and Saints of the First Twelve Centuries.= Studies
    from the lives of the Black-letter Saints of the English
    Calendar. By the Author of “The Schönberg-Cotta Family” &c.
    Crown 8vo. _Cloth boards_, 5_s._

_Two Shillings and Sixpence._

    =Cecily’s Birds.= By the Author of “Our Valley,” “Swanford
    Bridge,” &c. With 3 page Woodcuts. Crown 8 vo. _Cloth boards._

    =Her Will and Her Way, and other Stories.= By Mrs. NEWMAN. With
    3 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth boards._

    =Mère Suzanne, and other Stories.= By KATHARINE S. MACQUOID,
    Author of “A Strange Company” &c. With 3 page Woodcuts, from
    drawings by REINHART. Crown 8vo. _Cloth boards._

_Two Shillings._

    =Foxholt and the Light that Burned there.= By the Rev. E. N.
    HOARE, Author of “A Turbulent Town.” With 3 page Woodcuts.
    Crown 8vo. _Cloth boards._

    =The Christmas Present.= By A. EUBULE EVANS, Author of
    “Reclaimed” &c. With 3 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth boards._

    =True to Training.= By F. E. READE, Author of “Clary’s
    Confirmation” &c. With 3 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth
    boards._

    =Stories for Sunday Scholars.= With 3 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo.
    _Cloth boards._

    =With Hooks of Steel.= By CRONA TEMPLE, Author of “Her Father’s
    Inheritance” &c. With 3 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth
    boards._

    =Mrs. Barth’s Girl.= By F. C. F., Author of “Inasmuch” &c. With
    3 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth boards._

    =Hawbrook Farm; or, Esther Gaunt’s Wooing.= By L. M. LANE,
    Author of “Harry’s Discipline” &c. With 3 page Woodcuts. Crown
    8vo. _Cloth boards._

    =Out in the Cold.= By ANNETTE LYSTER, Author of “Chryssie’s
    Hero” &c. With 3 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth boards._

    =A Steadfast Purpose.= By Mrs. ISLA SITWELL, Author of “Aunt
    Kezia’s Will” &c. With 3 page Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. _Cloth
    boards._

    =Bird Stories.= Old and New. In Pictures and Prose. By HARRISON
    WEIR. _Paper boards_, 1_s._ 6_d._

    =People’s Library: Factors in Life.= Three Lectures on Health,
    Food, Education. By Professor SEELEY, F.R.S. Crown 8vo. _Cloth
    boards_, 1_s._

⁂ _Ten other Volumes of this Series have appeared._

    =Pictorial Geography of the British Isles.= By Miss PALGRAVE.
    With numerous Engravings. Oblong 4to. _Cloth boards_, 5_s._

            London: NORTHUMBERLAND AVENUE, CHARING CROSS, W.C.
                      43 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
                       Brighton: 135 NORTH STREET.




BEMROSE & SONS’ LIST.


Now ready. Crown 8vo. 7_s._ 6_d._

    =GOD WITHOUT RELIGION=: Deism and Sir Fitzjames Stephen. By
    WILLIAM ARTHUR.

Crown 8vo. cloth, price 7_s._ 6_d._

    =RELIGION WITHOUT GOD=: I. Positivism and Mr. Frederic
    Harrison. II. Agnosticism and Mr. Herbert Spencer. By WILLIAM
    ARTHUR.

Separately,

    =POSITIVISM=. Crown 8vo. sewed, 2_s._
    =AGNOSTICISM=. Crown 8vo. sewed, 4_s._ 6_d._

“Mr. Arthur writes in an eminently lucid and forcible style, and it is
much to be wished that Mr. Spencer’s disciples would give this volume
a candid reading. We would strongly recommend the book as an antidote
for those who have been distressed themselves, or have seen distress in
others, by reason of Mr. Spencer’s speculations.”—LITERARY CHURCHMAN.

Crown 8vo. cloth gilt, price 4_s._ 6_d._

    =THE TONGUE OF FIRE=; or, the True Power of Christianity. By
    WILLIAM ARTHUR.

Crown 8vo. cloth gilt, 6_s._

    =THE SUCCESSFUL MERCHANT.= Sketches of the Life of Mr. Samuel
    Budgett. By WILLIAM ARTHUR.

“One of the finest biographies ever written.”—SWORD AND TROWEL.

    =BRIDE PICOTÉE.= By the Author of “The Atelier du Lys.” With
    Illustrations by W. L. JONES. Crown 8vo. cloth gilt, price
    3_s._ 6_d._

“This is a charming little French story. We have not read for many years
a tale of greater beauty and simplicity than ‘Bride Picotée.’”—SPECTATOR.

    =MISS JEAN’S NIECE.= By the Author of “Bride Picotée,” “Atelier
    du Lys,” “In the Olden Time,” &c. With Illustrations by W. L.
    JONES. Crown 8vo. cloth gilt, price 3_s._ 6_d._

“This is a well-written, clever, and touching story, and well suited as a
gift-book for young people.”—GLASGOW HERALD.

“Full of that freshness and delicate feeling which readers of ‘Bride
Picotée’ will be prepared to find. A word of praise is due to the taste
shown in the matter of paper, printing, and binding. As a present
for a young girl fortunate enough to have preserved a liking for
non-sensational fiction, we have seen no book more eminently suitable
than this.”—SATURDAY REVIEW.

    =PLEASANT TALKS ABOUT JESUS=: Half-hours with the Children. By
    JOHN COLWELL. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 2_s._ 6_d._

“The contents are very good indeed, and will be very helpful to mothers
who are striving to bring up their children in the love of God and of
Christ.”—CHURCH BELLS.

    =MR. BARTRAM’S DAUGHTER.= By C. J. HAMILTON, Author of “The
    Flynns of Flynville” &c. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. cloth, price
    3_s._ 6_d._

“A pleasant, wholesome tale of English social life. It is not often that
every-day personages and incidents are described with so much insight
and realism. There are clever portraitures of clerical character, and
peeps into the society of a small cathedral city, and there is a sweet
love episode, which, after some storms and interruptions, ends in married
happiness, as all readers of well-constituted mind would wish it to
end.”—SCOTSMAN.

            London: BEMROSE & SONS, 23 Old Bailey; and Derby.




MESSRS. LONGMANS & CO.’S LIST.


_By Dr. G. HARTWIG._

    =SEA MONSTERS AND SEA BIRDS.= With 75 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
    2_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =DENIZENS OF THE DEEP.= With 117 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
    2_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =DWELLERS IN THE ARCTIC REGIONS.= With 29 Illustrations. Crown
    8vo. 2_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =WINGED LIFE IN THE TROPICS.= With 55 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
    2_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =VOLCANOES AND EARTHQUAKES.= With 30 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
    2_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =WILD ANIMALS OF THE TROPICS.= With 66 Illustrations. Crown
    8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

_By Rev. F. G. WOOD._

    =THE BRANCH BUILDERS.= With 28 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 2_s._
    6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =WILD ANIMALS OF THE BIBLE.= With 29 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
    3_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =DOMESTIC ANIMALS OF THE BIBLE.= With 23 Illustrations. Crown
    8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =BIRD LIFE OF THE BIBLE.= With 32 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
    3_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =WONDERFUL NESTS.= With 30 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3_s._
    6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

    =HOMES UNDER THE GROUND.= With 28 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
    3_s._ 6_d._ cloth extra, gilt edges.

MISS SEWELL’S TALES AND STORIES.

NEW AND CHEAPER EDITIONS.

Price 1_s._ each, boards; 1_s._ 6_d._ each, cloth plain; 2_s._ 6_d._
each, cloth extra, gilt edges.

    _=Amy Herbert.=_
    _=Gertrude.=_
    _=Laneton Parsonage.=_
    _=Margaret Percival.=_
    _=Earl’s Daughter.=_
    _=The Experience of Life.=_
    _=Katharine Ashton.=_
    _=Cleve Hall.=_
    _=Ivors.=_
    _=Ursula.=_
    _=A Glimpse of the World.=_

EPOCHS OF CHURCH HISTORY.

Edited by the Rev. MANDELL CREIGHTON, M.A. Fcp. 8vo. price 2_s._ 6_d._
each volume.

    =The English Church in other Lands=; or, The Spiritual
    Expansion of England. By Rev. W. H. TUCKER, M.A.

    =The History of the Reformation in England.= By GEORGE G.
    PERRY, M.A.

    =The Church of the Early Fathers.= External History. By ALFRED
    PLUMMER, M.A. D.D.

    =The Evangelical Revival in the Eighteenth Century.= By the
    Rev. JOHN HENRY OVERTON, M.A.

    =The History of the University of Oxford.= By the Hon. G. C.
    BRODRICK.

    =The Church and the Roman Empire.= By the Rev. ARTHUR CARR, M.A.

    =The Church and the Puritans, 1570-1660.= By H. OFFLEY WAKEMAN,
    M.A.

                    ⁂ _Other Volumes in preparation._

                     London: LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO.




MESSRS. HATCHARD’S LIST.


NEW STORY BY THE AUTHOR OF “MADLLE. MORI” &c.

    =THE FIDDLER OF LUGAU.= By the Author of “A Child of the
    Revolution,” “The Atelier du Lys,” &c. With Six Tinted
    Illustrations by W. RALSTON. Crown 8vo. cloth, 6_s._

A NEW STORY BY FREDERICK LANGBRIDGE.

    =RIDER’S LEAP=: a Story for Boys. By the Author of “Nil
    Desperandum,” “Peacock Alley,” &c. With Eight Illustrations by
    W. B. WOLLEN. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5_s._

NEW STORY BY ISMAY THORN.

    =A GOLDEN AGE.= By the Author of “Pinafore Days,” “Story of a
    Secret,” &c. With Six Illustrations by GORDON BROWNE. Crown
    8vo. cloth, 5_s._

NEW STORY BY MARY E. HULLAH.

    =NAMESAKES.= By the Author of “Philippa,” “The Lion Battalion,”
    &c. With Frontispiece by J. FINNEMORE. Fcp. 8vo. cloth, 1_s._
    6_d._

NEW STORY BY L. T. MEADE.

    =DADDY’S BOY.= By the Author of “A World of Girls,” “Scamp and
    I,” &c. With Nine Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5_s._

NEW STORY BY MRS. MOLESWORTH.

    =THE PALACE IN THE GARDEN.= By the Author of “Carrots,”
    “Silverthorns,” “Four Winds Farm,” &c. With Twenty-five
    Illustrations by HARRIET M. BENNETT. Crown 8vo. cloth extra,
    5_s._

“Mrs. Molesworth has written several charming stories for children, but
none more pleasantly conceived to rouse the wonder and admiration of her
little readers than the tale of ‘The Palace in the Garden.’”—SCOTSMAN.

NEW STORY BY MARY E. HULLAH.

    =THE GRACIOUS LADY’S RING.= By MARY E. HULLAH, Author of “The
    Lion Battalion,” “Philippa,” &c. Fcp. 8vo. fancy covers, price
    1_s._

BY MRS. MOLESWORTH, AUTHOR OF “CARROTS” &c.

    =SILVERTHORNS.= With Illustrations by F. NOËL PATON. Crown 8vo.
    5_s._

“Boys and girls alike will be charmed by ‘Silverthorns.’ Nothing could
be more simple than the plan of this story, yet the interest is deep and
sustained from first to last.”—SATURDAY REVIEW.

“A most attractive book. The story is sure to be popular.”—LONDON FIGARO.

Lately published, crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3_s._ 6_d._

    =PLAYING AT BOTANY.= By PHŒBE ALLEN, Author of “Gilmory” &c.
    With Coloured Frontispiece by MAUD NAFTEL.

“This is a charming little book. The writer adopts the excellent plan of
letting each flower tell its own story.... This plan is admirably carried
out.”—MORNING POST.

BY MARY E. HULLAH, AUTHOR OF “THE LION BATTALION.”

    =PHILIPPA.= With Frontispiece by GORDON BROWNE. Crown 8vo. 5_s._

“After much weary reading of the numerous works provided in such
overwhelming quantities by the publishers at this season of the year,
the reviewer is strongly tempted to overpraise a work so fresh, artless,
and finished as Miss Hullah’s ‘Philippa.’ The clever authoress is a
delightful story-teller. For originality of treatment, quiet sense of
humour, and literary style, ‘Philippa’ rises far above the mass of
mediocrity flooding the book market.”—PUBLIC OPINION.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID, AUTHOR OF “PATTY” &c.

    =JOAN WENTWORTH.= With Illustrations by GORDON BROWNE. Crown
    8vo. 6_s._

“An admirable study of girl life.”—ATHENÆUM.

“It is a real pleasure to come across so thoroughly bright and piquant a
girl’s book. The story is very charming, and we feel sure will prove a
source of great enjoyment.”—LITERARY WORLD.

                  London: HATCHARDS, 187 Piccadilly, W.




FREDERICK WARNE & CO.’S LIST.


In crown 8vo. cloth gilt, with Illustrations. =3/6=

    =EDEN TO PATMOS=: Incidents and Scenes in Bible History. By Rev.
      GORDON CALTHROP.
    =ETHEL FORTESCUE=; or, Left in Charge. By Mrs. C. SELBY LOWNDES.

In crown 8vo. cloth gilt, Illustrated. =2/6=

    =TWO YEARS OF SCHOOL LIFE.= By Madame de PRESSENSÉ.
    =TRUE STORIES OF BRAVE DEEDS.= By Rev. G. T. HOARE.
    =MEN OF NOTE=: their Boyhood and Schooldays. By E. FOSTER.
    =CUSHIONS AND CORNERS.= By Hon. Mrs. R. J. GREENE.
    =CAMPANELLA.= By Mrs. JEROME MERCIER.
    =BOYS OF HOLY WRIT.=
    =FEMALE CHARACTERS OF HOLY WRIT.= By Rev. H. HUGHES.
    =CHRISTABEL HOPE.= By Mrs. MERCIER.
    =LUCY WEST.= By Mrs. H. B. PAULL.
    =MARIAN AND HER PUPILS.= By CHARLOTTE LANKESTER.

In crown 8vo. cloth gilt, fully Illustrated. =2/0=

    =NEW HONOURS.= By Mrs. C. SELBY LOWNDES.
    =LENA GRAHAM.= By Mrs. C. SELBY LOWNDES.
    =NANCY’S NEPHEW.= By BEATRICE MARSHALL.
    =LINFORD GREEN.= By Mrs. C. SELBY LOWNDES.
    =KIRSTIN’S ADVENTURES.=
    =BENAIAH.= By the Author of “Naomi.”
    =PHILLIS PHIL.= By Mrs. HENRY KEARY.
    =AUNT BERTIE’S STORIES.= By E. L. HERVEY.
    =SEVEN O’CLOCK.= By JANIE BROCKMAN.
    =WORTH DOING.= By JANIE BROCKMAN.
    =THE OLD BIBLE=; or, The Martyr’s Gift. By E. WYNNE.

                              _=Now ready=_

                  A COMPLETE LIST OF OUR PUBLICATIONS,
                     numbering nearly 3,000 Volumes.

                            _=Write for it.=_

             FREDERICK WARNE & CO., Bedford Street, Strand.




NATIONAL SOCIETY’S

NEW SERIES OF SCRIPTURE PRINTS


In response to many and oft-repeated demands, the National Society has
undertaken a series of Wall Prints for Schools, which, it is hoped, will
fill a place unoccupied by the prints from Scripture hitherto provided
for children.

_The following Six Prints form the first instalment of the Series_:

    =1. The Flight into Egypt.=
    =2. The Entombment.=
    =3. Blessing of the Children.=
    =4. The Adoration of the Shepherds.=
    =5. The Holy Women at the Sepulchre.=
    =6. The Entry into Jerusalem.=

Price of each Print, 3_s._ Size of Print, 27 inches by 21 inches; with
margin, 35 inches by 29 inches.

The Prints may also be obtained in the following forms, the price in
each case being _net_: canvas, rollers, and varnished, 3_s._ 9_d._;
stretcher and varnished, 4_s._ 6_d._; black and gilt frame, with glass,
9_s._ 6_d._; flat oak and gilt frame, with glass, 9_s._ 6_d._; the Print,
_without margin_, framed in gilt, with glass, 7_s._ 6_d._




NATIONAL SOCIETY’S

NEW STORY BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG


=UNDER THE STORM.= By CHARLOTTE M. YONGE, Author of “The Heir of
Redclyffe” &c. With Six full-page Illustrations. Bevelled boards, cloth
gilt, price 3_s._ 6_d._

=A LITTLE STEP-DAUGHTER.= By the Author of “The Atelier du Lys,”
“Mademoiselle Mori,” &c. With Six full-page Illustrations. Bevelled
boards, cloth gilt, price 3_s._ 6_d._

=PRENTICE HUGH.= By FRANCES MARY PEARD, Author of “Scapegrace Dick” &c.
With Six full-page Illustrations. Bevelled boards, cloth gilt, price
3_s._ 6_d._

=A PROMISE KEPT.= By MARY E. PALGRAVE, Author of “Under the Blue Flag”
&c. With Four full-page Illustrations. Bevelled boards, cloth gilt, price
3_s._

=FOR HALF-A-CROWN.= By ESMÉ STUART, Author of “The Little Brown Girl” &c.
With Four full-page Illustrations. Bevelled boards, cloth gilt, price
3_s._

=UNCLE IVAN.= By M. BRAMSTON, Author of “The Heroine of a Basket Van” &c.
With Three full-page Illustrations. Bevelled boards, cloth gilt, price
2_s._ 6_d._

=SCAPEGRACE DICK.= By FRANCES MARY PEARD, Author of “The Rose Garden,”
“Mother Molly,” &c. With Four full-page Illustrations. Bevelled boards,
cloth gilt, price 3_s._ 6_d._

=THE HEROINE OF A BASKET VAN.= By M. BRAMSTON, Author of “Rosamond
Ferrars” &c. With Three full-page Illustrations. Bevelled boards, cloth
gilt, price 2_s._ 6_d._

=GOLDHANGER WOODS.= By M. and C. LEE, Authors of “The Oak Staircase” &c.
With Two full-page Illustrations. Bevelled boards, cloth gilt, price 2_s._

         NATIONAL SOCIETY’S DEPOSITORY, Sanctuary, Westminster.




NATIONAL SOCIETY’S PRIZE BOOKS for the YOUNG


CHAPTERS IN POPULAR NATURAL HISTORY

By Sir JOHN LUBBOCK, Bart., M.P., F.R.S., Author of “Ants, Bees, and
Wasps,” &c. With 90 Illustrations. Pp. 224. Bevelled boards, cloth gilt,
price 2_s._

    “These selections from Sir John Lubbock’s well-known works
    have been judiciously chosen, and the illustrations are
    admirable. Altogether, it is the most attractive of countless
    reading-books that the New Code has called forth.”—JOURNAL OF
    EDUCATION.

    “It has been admirably condensed from his larger works on
    insects and wild flowers, and will excite the wonder of young
    readers by the insight it gives them into the mysteries of
    nature and science.... There is abundance to charm all classes
    of students, and to set them thinking.”—DAILY CHRONICLE.

    “A more interesting and instructive book we have not read for
    some time.... The chapters on the colours of animals, and on
    plants, fruits, and seeds, should be read by every person who
    has acquired the art of reading.”—IRISH TEACHERS’ JOURNAL.

    “It was a happy thought of the Society thus to utilise
    and popularise some of Sir John Lubbock’s charming
    studies.”—LITERARY CHURCHMAN.

HISTORICAL BALLADS

Edited and Annotated by CHARLOTTE M. YONGE, Author of “Cameos from
English History.” The Complete Work in One Volume. Bevelled boards, cloth
gilt, pp. 662, price 4_s._

    “Miss Yonge’s two small volumes are suited to children by
    their simplicity of language and clearness of subject.... We
    think that the poems are judiciously and carefully chosen, and
    much attention has been bestowed on the short notes, the chief
    object of which is just to give children a little knowledge
    of matters and allusions which they would not properly
    understand.”—EDUCATIONAL TIMES on Parts I. and II.

    “We have no doubt that it was a labour of love to Miss Yonge
    to select and to annotate the stirring ballad music in which
    English literature is so rich. It will be nothing less than a
    liberal education to the children of the poor (or, indeed, of
    the rich) to commit to memory and ponder over such verses as
    these.”—LITERARY CHURCHMAN.

    “We have in this interesting volume a rare collection of pieces
    suitable for recitation. Much judgment has been exercised in
    choosing suitable poems, and care has been taken in so adapting
    the pieces for standard work that their fitness is at once
    apparent. It is the best collection of historical ballads that
    we know of.”—TEACHERS’ AID.

Second and Revised Edition

ENGLISH CHURCH HISTORY

Being a History of the Growth of the Church of England from the Earliest
Times down to the year 1878. By CHARLOTTE M. YONGE, Author of “The Heir
of Redclyffe,” “Cameos from English History,” &c. Bevelled boards, cloth
gilt, price 2_s._

HIGHER READING BOOK FOR SCHOOLS, COLLEGES, AND GENERAL USE

Consisting of nineteen Extracts from the works of Scott, Lytton,
Washington Irving, Southey, Cooper, Marryat, and other Standard Authors.
Edited, with Introductions and Notes, by CHARLOTTE M. YONGE, Author of
“The Heir of Redclyffe,” “Cameos from English History.” Pp. 432, price
2_s._ 6_d._

         NATIONAL SOCIETY’S DEPOSITORY, SANCTUARY, WESTMINSTER.




National Society’s Christmas and Reward Cards


THE LIFE OF OUR LORD

_Illustrated by Twenty-four highly-finished Pictures, being faithful
Reproductions of Paintings by the Old Masters, many of which (those
especially by Gaudenzio Ferrari and Duccio di Boninsegna) have, it is
believed, never before been reproduced either in Italy or in England._

I. THE CHILDHOOD OF CHRIST

    =1. The Annunciation.= By FRA ANGELICO.
    =2. The Nativity.= By FRA FILIPPO LIPPI.
    =3. The Adoration of the Magi.= By BERNARDINO LUINI.
    =4. The Presentation in the Temple.= By FRA BARTOLOMMEO.
    =5. The Flight into Egypt.= By GENTILE DA FABRIANO.
    =6. Christ among the Doctors.= By FRA ANGELICO.

II. THE MINISTRY OF CHRIST

    =1. The Baptism of Our Lord.= By GAUDENZIO FERRARI.
    =2. The Marriage at Cana.= By FRA ANGELICO.
    =3. The Sermon on the Mount.= By FRA ANGELICO.
    =4. Our Lord Walking on the Sea.= By LODOVICO CARDI DA CIGOLI.
    =5. The Transfiguration.= By FRA ANGELICO.
    =6. The Raising of Lazarus.= By GAUDENZIO FERRARI.

III. THE PASSION OF CHRIST

    =1. The Entry into Jerusalem.= By FRA ANGELICO.
    =2. The Last Supper.= By DUCCIO DI BONINSEGNA.
    =3. The Agony in the Garden.= By GAUDENZIO FERRARI.
    =4. The Betrayal.= By FRA ANGELICO.
    =5. Our Lord before Pilate.= By DUCCIO DI BONINSEGNA.
    =6. The Crucifixion.= By FRA ANGELICO.

IV. THE GREAT FORTY DAYS

    =1. The Entombment.= By PIETRO PERUGINO.
    =2. The Women at the Sepulchre.= By FRA ANGELICO.
    =3. Our Lord’s Appearance to St. Mary Magdalene.= By FRA ANGELICO.
    =4. The Journey to Emmaus.= By DUCCIO DI BONINSEGNA.
    =5. The Doubt of St. Thomas.= By CIMA DA CONEGLIANO.
    =6. The Ascension.= By PIETRO PERUGINO.

The Prophecy and Fulfilment of each event in the Life of Our Lord are
printed on the back of each Card in the words of Holy Scripture.

The Four Sets, which are suitable as Christmas, Lent, and Easter Cards,
and for Reward Cards, are issued in neat Wrappers, and sold separately,
price 2_s._ 6_d._ each. Size, 6 by 4½ inches.

         NATIONAL SOCIETY’S DEPOSITORY, SANCTUARY, WESTMINSTER.




NATIONAL SOCIETY’S RECENT PUBLICATIONS


THE LIFE OF OUR LORD AND SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST

_Illustrated from the Italian Painters of the Fourteenth, Fifteenth, and
Sixteenth Centuries._

A Preface has been furnished to this volume, on the Growth of Religious
Art in Italy, by Mr. F. T. PALGRAVE, who has also added Critical and
Explanatory Notes on the Pictures and their Painters.

Richly bound in cloth boards, bevelled, gilt edges, price 21_s._

    The =Church Quarterly Review= says:—“This book is a perfect
    gem.... It is, indeed, a relief to turn to such matchless
    designs as these. It would be impossible to speak too highly of
    the knowledge of the history of art, the elevation of thought,
    and the elegance of style which Mr. Palgrave displays.”

    The =Spectator= says:—“The drawings are executed with much
    skill; and the chromo-lithographic process is here employed
    with delicacy and success. Mr. Palgrave’s notes are pertinent
    and instructive. His Introduction is able and eloquent.”

    The =Academy= says:—“This is a very beautiful book, and the
    chromo-lithographs with which it is adorned, or rather, which
    are illustrated by the text, reflect great credit on the care
    and skill of all concerned in their production.”

    The =Athenæum= says:—“By way of preface, a highly intelligent
    and critical essay on the growth, aims, and developments of
    religious art in Italy by Mr. F. T. Palgrave. Each well-weighed
    and thoughtful sentence is worth reading. The general purport
    of the book is well represented by the title. Mr. Palgrave
    vouches for the beauty of the drawings made by Mr. Goodall,
    from which the chromo-lithographs were taken.... A very
    ambitious effort has been extremely successful.”

    The =Portfolio= says:—“The eloquent and informing preface and
    the critical notes on the pictures, by Mr. F. T. Palgrave, are
    addressed to an adult and cultured audience.... The literary
    part of the volume deserves more careful consideration than
    is usually accorded to letterpress penned to accompany even
    high-class illustrations.”

    The =Art Journal= says:—“A work which should be the most
    popular, as it must be the handsomest, of Christmas books
    bearing a religious character.... Twenty-four wonderful little
    chromo-lithographs from drawings made on the spot.... The
    volume is in every way a beautiful one.”

THE STORY OF THE CHILDHOOD OF CHRIST. By R. E. H. 4_s._

THE STORY OF THE MINISTRY OF CHRIST. By R. E. H. 4_s._

THE STORY OF THE PASSION OF CHRIST. By R. E. H. 4_s._

THE STORY OF THE RESURRECTION OF CHRIST. By R. E. H. 4_s._

    Each of the above four Volumes is illustrated by Six Pictures
    from the Italian Painters of the Fourteenth, Fifteenth, and
    Sixteenth Centuries.

         NATIONAL SOCIETY’S DEPOSITORY, SANCTUARY, WESTMINSTER.



